# [Interview #462: TGS Signing Report - Old (Peter) Salt, Entry #26](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=462#26)

#### Question

What gave you the confidence to write? What kept you sticking with it after being turned down all those times?

#### Brandon Sanderson

“I fell in love with the process of writing. I would write even if I couldn’t sell any of it. Of course it makes it easier that it does sell.” (Laughter)

He then went on to describe that
*Elantris*
was the first thing he had ever sold, the thirteenth piece that he had submitted and the sixth novel. He went on to say that he doesn’t read any bad reviews of his work. “If it has a low star count I pass it by.” He said that there could be thousands of rave reviews and only one negative one but he would focus on the negative and ignore all the raves, so he has learned to only read the “good” reviews. He also said that when he needs encouragement he will find a book he really likes and thinks is absolutely stellar and he will then read a one star review of it. “You can always find a one star review, no matter what it is. Even Hamlet has gotten one star reviews.” (laughter)

He went on to talk about how the fans comment on that “you are not RJ.” He agrees with them. “I’m not RJ and they have every right to be angry that I’m not.” He then said that they need to finish their grieving process and get over with it. He agrees that the book isn’t as good as what RJ would have done but he is happy with it.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*