# [Interview #973: AMOL Signing Report - Kazmero, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=973#1)

#### Kazmero

Hello Fellow Wheel of Time Fans,

Sorry for the delay. :(

Our team of Memory Keepers for the Vancouver book signing with Brandon Sanderson were excited for our opportunity to meet him in person and to share our love of the series with fellow fans. (Plus the swag wasn't too bad either.)

First off, I'd like to say that Brandon was a class act individual. He was humble, appreciative and gracious in meeting with us and the other fans. I was particularly impressed by his ability to answer potentially spoiling questions without making them spoilers for others.

His thoughtfulness towards those that had difficulty standing or those with young children (3 or younger) was very considerate. He made it known from the start of the signing portion that they could come right to the front of the line to get their books signed. He also committed to being at the store till a certain time to let people know they could go away, have some dinner and come back later.

One of the benefits I received from the experience was to learn more about Brandon's own books and, while I've already read
*Elantris*
, I'm excited to read more of his own works.

I finished
*A Memory of Light*
a few days before so was still feeling so much love and appreciation to Harriet, TOR, Team Jordan and Brandon for not just doing it right but for doing it so very very well. Yes, I LOVED IT!

One of our team, Alex, was also very gracious. He had only read up to
*A Crown of Swords*
and offered to leave the room while the rest of us briefly met with Brandon so we could ask some spoiler questions. Brandon provided answers in a way that I found very intriguing and thoughtful from his and RJ's notes.

Alex must have brought about 13 books with him and Brandon showed no hesitation at all in signing each and every one of them. Once again he was very personable with us being a good sport about the pictures and signing of our t-shirts at the end.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*