# [Interview #973: AMOL Signing Report - Kazmero, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=973#3)

#### Kazmero

One of my favorite portions of the evening occurred when I was walking near the end of the line and saw someone just reading the last few pages of
*A Memory of Light*
. I stopped and asked her if she was just about done. She responded that she had finished it and was just re-reading the ending. Knowing that she'd read the whole thing I struck up a conversation with her and another person in line, sharing all the things we loved about the whole story. After about 10 minutes another guy stepped into the conversation and we must have spent about half an hour talking about the things we loved. I especially enjoyed this because she really liked parts of it that I and other friends of mine found slow. This really opened my eyes up to all the different perspectives that were out there about this book and series.

Overall the time flew by so quickly and it seemed like it was over almost before it got started.

A huge THANK YOU TO THE CHAPTERS Metrotown team (Mary Lynn, Jimmy, Ching and all the rest of the staff) for treating us so well, especially with the Thank You and gift cards.

I didn't want to put out any spoilers so have kept parts of this a little vaguer than I might have done otherwise.

My team, Stefan, Alex, Dawn, Alex. It was wonderful to meet you and to share in this grand adventure together. May the light be with you.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*