# [Interview #199: DragonCon Report - Camel, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=199#3)

#### Camel

I slept on the floor. Man, it was cold. Real cold. Like, 55F. Yeesh. I woke up to Tam holding up a piece of paper to my face that said "CAMEL, THE PARADE STARTS AT 10:00. IT IS 9:45" so I jumped up, got dressed, and hauled @#%$ to the parade. I ran into some friends from school who were there (like I said, my school's only 2 hours away) and stuff. I was wandering around, watching the parade and looking for anyone I knew. I stumbled across RJ and Harriet watching the parade. I snapped a picture of them, and then went back to watching the parade with my professor and his partner. Afterwards, I wandered around with them for a bit and then headed back to the hotel. At the Travelodge, I ran into WSB, and we waited for SP to get there to open our door (WSB's key wasn't working). Then we went to lunch at SP's favorite place, Max Lager.

At lunch, we had a conversation going until the food got there, and then the conversation just stopped. So I cracked a joke, and then SP thought it was some sort of contest and began telling every joke he knew. Let me just say that SP has no sense of comic timing. He kept going past the punchline, which was funny, but jokes cease to be funny when you explain things. So, buddy, stop at the punch line next time, wait 3-5 seconds, and then keep going.

Finally, we walked back to the Travelodge, and said our farewells to Zaela and SP, who were leaving to go back home. I was bummed, cause I really wanted to spend more time with them. I mean, I'd known them for years, and I only got to meet them for 24 hours! what gives? Oh well, it was a pleasure anyway. Then I decided to go see if I could replace my badge, and then meet up with them in the Hyatt for the Q&A.

I arrived at the Q&A and said to the Information desk,

Camel: "Hi, I lost my badge, where do I go to get it replaced?"
  
Lady: "Oh, we don't replace badges, sir. You'll have to buy a new one."
  
Camel: "What? I paid money for it, I have a photo ID, and my info's in the system."
  
Lady: "We don't replace them, period. Sorry, sir. I'd go check the security office."

So I wandered up to the Hyatt and asked if they had found my badge. It hadn't been turned int. So I just kinda snuck into the Q&A and found that it was almost over! People stood up and were leaving as I entered the room. Fun. So I looked around for someone I recognized, and I saw Isabel's brilliant radiance beckoning to me from across the d--- er.. \*cough\*. I mean, I saw her standing up front with Tamyrlin and WSB. I went up there, and we stood around and talked for a minute, got pictures with RJ. Isabel wandered off somewhere and WSB was going to do something else, and Tamyrlin and I decided to wander around for a little bit to try and find him some food (he hadn't eaten lunch with us) before the book signing. We got to a bakery, but it was closed, and we were out of time. But he did manage to sign onto the Net and make a quick post at Theoryland.

