# [Interview #199: DragonCon Report - Camel, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=199#4)

#### Camel

At the book signing, I was kinda paranoid that I'd get kicked out cause I didn't have a badge, but really, nobody checked. Tam and I were about 5 people behind WSB, and Isabel was late. When she finally did show up, she cut into the line and stood with WSB. It was funny, though, everyone knew Isabel. And when I say everyone, I mean everyone. But I had this little superior feeling (i dunno why) because she was with US and not with THEM, if that makes sense. She was a Theorylander, and everyone knew her. That was cool, I thought.

Finally, the line started moving, and WSB and Isabel were going over that huge list of questions that everyone submitted, trying to figure out which ones to ask and which ones had already been answered, and which ones were answered that might spawn new questions. I dunno, I didn't really care, I just wanted my books signed. I think it took maybe 30 minutes for me and Tam to get to the front. Isabel and WSB hadn't left after they got theirs signed, so they were standing around waiting to hear the answers to Tam's and my questions. Tamyrlin asked some weird question about cords and stuff, and I was just kinda speechless, cause, I mean, here I am, standing in front of the man who has dominated my literary reading for the past 7-8 years. I was kinda speechless. So he's signing my books, and I'm just standing there, and Isabel elbows me sharply in the ribs, and says "Ask him a question!" in a low voice.

Camel: "Oh, right, I get a question."
  
Camel: "Yeah, wheres your hat, in your little, in your picture, I was really looking forward to seeing the hat."

#### Robert Jordan

"I didnt bring the black one this time, I brought a brown one. I thought it might get rained on a lot."

#### CAMEL

Camel: "I was really looking forward to the hat."

Isabel was furious. She got over it though. It must be the Camel charm, you know.

So then Tam and I decided to go find him something to eat, since he was starving, and it was now about 5:00, so my lunch had been fully digested and my stomach was growling. But first we had to go get my car from the parking lot and take it to the hotel. So we got there, and apparently I owed a 15 dollar fine or something. I paid it and we went back to the hotel. And I feel that I must point out that Tamyrlin suggested a route back to the hotel, which led us in circles for half an hour before I decided to stop listening to the Lord of the Board and find the place on my own. We got there two minutes later. That's what you get for listening to Tam, folks. Then we started walking to find some food. The Quiznos was closed, so we went to McDonald's instead. Then we went back to where the bakery was, sat down, and got on Theoryland and posted again. Tam and I then returned to the hotel, and he began typing up the transcripts.

In a word, boring.

However, at some point we were listening to the transcript, and Tam made the comment that RJ had just pretty much flat out stated that Nynaeve was a Learner. Isabel was furious! She threw this cute little hissy fit and screamed "NO! NO! NO!" at the top of her lungs, jumped up and down on the bed, and tried to tell us RJ was wrong. Tamyrlin was sitting there, jaw on the floor, and then he says:

Tamyrlin: "Isabel, I'm just quoting what RJ said, I'm not putting my spin on this!"
  
Isabel: "He's wrong!" (ack!) "Now, you need to write that he's wrong on there!"
  
Tamyrlin: "This is a transcript, Isabel, not a commentary!"

Isabel then proceeded to grab the tape recorder and refused to give it back until she finished her tirade. Actually, at one point she sat down on the bed and ticked off all of the reasons why Nynaeve was a sparker. She even got her book out and found quotes. When she grabbed the book, I grabbed the tape recorder and gave it back to Tam, lol. This was quite possibly the funniest moment of the entire weekend.

Well, that and RJ's comment about Tam's theories and the "Nice try, Jack!" line.

Anyway, later I fell asleep. About an hour later, I wake up to Isabel practically sitting on my feet, and WSB and Tam arguing about something on the transcript. \*yawn\* I turned on the TV and watched something, I forget what. Anyway, around 9:00, the following conversation ensues:

Tamyrlin: "Hey Camel, pizza?"
  
Camel: "Sure."
  
Tamyrlin (tossing a $20 to Camel): "Order it."
  
Camel: "Now?"
  
Tamyrlin: "Sure, why not?"
  
Camel: "What do you want on it?"
  
Tamyrlin: "What do you like?"
  
Camel: "I like everything, so whatever you want."
  
Tamyrlin: "Sausage and onions?"

I must have made a face, cause he laughed.

Tamyrlin: "You don't like sausage and onions?"
  
Camel: "I like them.. I've just never had JUST sausage and onions."
  
Tamyrlin: "Oh. Well, we can split it half and half. Get whatever you want on your half."

So I go out to the lobby and get a flyer for the local pizza place, and order the pizza. I got one half sausage and onion and the other half pepperoni and mushrooms. I went back to the room and turned on the TV again. Flipping through the channels, I discovered that "Iron Chef America" was on. It was better than watching "Walker, Texas Ranger", so I watched that, while Tam typed up transcripts and WSB looked at something (porn? nah) on his computer.

For those of you who haven't watched "Iron Chef" on the Food Network, it's basically a cook off contest between two chefs. They have an hour to prepare so many dishes based around a specified secret ingredient. Tonight's ingredient was mushrooms. It was a cool battle. About halfway through, the phone rings. Pizza's here! So I go out there and grab the pizza and bread sticks and come back to the room.

I open the breadsticks box and have one of those, while Tam reaches into the pizza, and grabs a slice of pizza. We're eating and watching Iron Chef, and then I reach into the pizza box, and there are only two slices of PEPPERONI AND MUSHROOM left, and there are FOUR SAUSAGE AND ONION slices.

Camel: "Whoa, Tam, you're eating my pizza."
  
Tamyrlin: "No, I'm not, I'm eating mine."
  
Camel: "Dude, you're eating pepperoni and mushroom."
  
Tamyrlin: "OH NO! I'm so sorry, Camel!"
  
Camel: "It's okay, don't worry about it."

He kept apologizing. After my slices were gone, I tried one of his sausage and onion pizzas. Again, I must have made a face, 'cause he said "Don't like it?" I shook my head and ate some more bread sticks.

Then Isabel came in and everyone argued about WoT stuff. Then we went to sleep. I got the bed this time.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*