# [Interview #199: DragonCon Report - Camel, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=199#5)

#### Camel

Sunday morning I woke up, got dressed, and... well, I'm not exactly sure what we did first, but I wanna say we went straight to the hotel to the book signing. Well, before I go into this, let me just say a few things. About a week before the Con, I was talking to Isabel, and she mentioned that her greatest fear was that RJ wouldn't remember her. So I understand that the first time she saw RJ at DragonCon, he walked into the room, saw her, and said "Oh, it's the 12-year old Isabel. Does your mother know you're here?" I'm glad her world wasn't crushed, hehe.

Anyway, once again, WSB was half a dozen people in front of us, but this time with Isabel. We finally got back up to the front of the line. Harriet looked at my little sticky note, and asked about the writing on them. The sticky notes were basically messages we wanted RJ to write on the signings. Mine were:

"To Camel, Robert Jordan"
  
"You? No! - Robert Jordan"
  
"Let the Camel ride again on the winds of time. - Robert Jordan"

She thought it was cute that I had a Camel hat. Anyway, Isabel was there again, and she was like "Ask him a question! A serious one!" So I leaned over, and I said "Hey, do you remember my sister? She's 12, and Mother wouldn't let her come to your signing unless I came with her. Do you remember Isabel?" And he says, "Yes, I know all about Isabel." We all had a good laugh about that. She was so embarrassed. I love it.

So then Isabel wandered off, and Tam and WSB and I went to people watch at the hotel, taking pictures of various scantily clad women and other cool costumes that we saw. We went to the vendor's area, and looked around, where Tam and I saw the Margaret Weis booth. WSB had wandered off at this point. We went over there, and introduced ourselves and said how much we enjoyed her series and stuff. As we were walking away, Tam looked at me.

Tamyrlin: "You know, we should get autographs and pictures. I mean, man, I didn't know Margaret Weis was gonna be here."
  
Camel: "Yeah, okay."

So we went back, and Tamyrlin bought a hardback copy of "Time of the Twins" (with a new cover! 25 bucks!) and got her to sign it. After we took pictures of him with her, and her with me, then I calmly said, "hey Tam, paperbacks" and pointed to a bookshelf behind me. He turned red in the face, it was kinda funny. Then we're walking away, and Tam holds the book up to me and says.. and I quote:

Tamyrlin: "This is the best series ever written."
  
I stopped.
  
Camel: "...What did you say?"
  
Tamyrlin: "I said, this is the best... er... trilogy.. ever written."

I shook my head and kept walking.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*