# [Interview #199: DragonCon Report - Camel, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=199#6)

#### Camel

Tam and I went over to the Q&A. As we're crossing the street from the Mariott to the Hyatt, this guy goes:

Man: "Whoa there. Where's your badge?"
  
Tamyrlin: "Well, he lost it earlier."
  
Man: "Can't let you in without a badge, sir."
  
Camel: "But I lost it, man. I paid for it and everything."
  
Man: "Well, did you report it?"
  
Camel: "Yeah."
  
Man: "Do you have a hotel key?"
  
Camel: "Yeah, to the Travelodge down the street."
  
Man: "Let me see it." I showed it to him. "Okay, you've got a hotel key, go on."

So we went into the Q&A, and I watched everyone ask questions. At Isabel's first question, RJ said "Come up here and ask me closer." cause he couldn't understand her. So she went up there and showed him our huge list of questions. I got a picture. He read one of them and answered it. Then Tam asked a question and basically got RAFO'd, and he came back and sat down. I suggested a question to him, and he says, "Go ask it, man." So I got in line. And waited. Finally:

Camel: "I know a lot of questions have been asked and I was wondering if either of you knew of a question we haven't asked that you think we should have asked already, and what would that be?"

#### Robert Jordan

"You really think I am going to be that easy. I mean I am gullible, but that's with women. Nice try, Jack!"

#### CAMEL

So I sat down, suitably embarrassed. Tam and WSB thought it was hilarious that he thought my name was Jack. (Hint: it's not). After that, we went over to the mall and grabbed a bite to eat. I got a picture of Tinkerbell. It was cool. Walking back to the hotel, I took a picture of some Cobra guys solely to stop up traffic in the hallway. Mwahahaha.

