# [Interview #199, Entry #7]: DragonCon Report - Camel](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=199#7)

#### Camel

Then... I think it was 5:30, so we went over to the Marriott again and went to the Dabel Brothers presentation of the New Spring comics. They handed us all copies of a sort of "behind the scenes" comic, and answered a lot of questions about the comic. It was really cool. Ernst Dabel, the president of the company, was very friendly and very helpful. It was an awesome presentation. Afterwards, Tam and I went behind the Hyatt and he got online and entered chat and we talked to Lantos and Zaela for a few minutes, and he posted some transcripts.

Then we went back to the hotel, I think, and Tam worked on some more transcripts, and we ordered another pizza. This time, the Camel learned his lesson and made SURE that Tam ate his half of the pizza. At about 9:30, we got up and went to another event on the WoT track, the Winespring Inn, which was supposed to be fun.

Upon attempting to enter the Marriott for the event, we were stopped again by a Dragoncon official who wanted to know where my badge was.

Tamyrlin: "He lost it, but we reported it earlier."
  
Camel: "Yeah, I lost it, but I reported it earlier."
  
Tamyrlin: "Thanks for the support, Camel."
  
Camel: "No problem, Tam."
  
Guy: "Well, you need to do more than report it, you need to go to the security office and get something that says you're not some sort of serial killer or something."
  
Camel: "Oh, where's the security office?"
  
Guy: \*points behind him towards the hotel\* "Room 222." (\*\*\*ROFLROFL\*\*\*)
  
Camel: "Oh, thanks, we'll go there right away."

So we went to room 222, and they basically told us that we couldn't get another badge, because they save everything in the database by badge numbers, not by names, so regardless of the fact that I had photo ID, they couldn't check to see if I had had a badge (stupid, Dragoncon!) Basically the guy implied that if I left the building, to be sure I didn't want to come back again.

