# [Interview #199: DragonCon Report - Camel, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=199#8)

#### Camel

I should point out that after the Dabel Brothers presentation, the fire marshall had declared that we could no longer take pictures inside the hotel, as it caused a fire hazard. The reasoning being that people who stop to take pictures are creating crowds, and the sheer number of people at the con who stopped to take pictures were creating fire hazards.

We got downstairs to the Kennesaw room, and there was a line to get into the room. Apparently, there was a limit of 100 people allowed in the room, and let me just say it was not a big room. We were literally packed.

So there was some sort of Warder initiation ceremony (blah blah) and then we all sat down, Tam and I were in the back, and WSB and Isa and Hopper had a better seat on the side of the room. Then these three entertainers get up, and start playing really bad music. They were dressed as a RenFaire group, and the guy playing the guitar must've wanted to be a rock star, because he kept going into these huge riffs and rocking back and forward like he was jamming to music. It was really bad. And then there were the bellydancers.

I'm going to have to agree with SP on this one. Spandex is a privilege, not a right. Same goes for... bellydancers. If you don't have the body, don't bellydance. LOL. All right, moving on.

Honestly, I didn't care for the bellydancers, I didn't find it appealing at all. Tam was drooling, and so was Hopper and WSB. Isabel didn't look even remotely entertained by any of this. She clapped when everyone else did, but she had a very solemn face the whole time. I was with her, I didn't like it all that much.

After about an hour, Isabel convinced WSB and Hopper to leave, and at that cue, Tam and I got up and left, as well. We went back to the hotel, and Tam stayed up until 3:30 typing up transcripts, while WSB and I got some sleep.

