# [Interview #199: DragonCon Report - Camel, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=199#9)

#### Camel

At about 4:30, I woke up, and Tam was still awake watching TV. So I got up, got my things together, packed them, got dressed, and Tam said goodbye to WSB, and we left to go to the airport. We had a nice talk, and I really really enjoyed spending so much time with Tam. He's a great guy, and I feel like if we lived closer to each other, we could be best friends.

After dropping the Lord of the Board off at the Atlanta Hartsfield International Airport, I went back to the Travelodge, because I wanted to say goodbye to WSB and Isabel. I got back in at 5:45ish, and went back to sleep. I woke up around 9:30 and WSB was gone! Isabel didn't answer her door, either. So I walked down to the Hyatt, snuck in through a back entrance (No badge, remember?) and went into the Kennesaw room. They were having a discussion about.. I think Asmodean's murder, but I'm not too sure. After that was over, at 11:00, we went to the mall and got a bite to eat, and I said my goodbyes, and I left. And that, as they say, is that.

I would just like to thank Zaela and SP and Isabel and WSB and Tam and Hopper and Dapple for making this quite possibly the best weekend I've had in a long, long time. At times it may have looked like I wasn't enjoying things, but I promise you, just being with you guys made it all worthwhile. I met three extremely beautiful women, and four really great guys. I feel like I've known you all for years, which, technically, I have. But you know what I mean. You guys are awesome. I'm flat broke now, but that's okay, cause you guys made a dream come true for me. Thank you, from the bottom of my heart, and I can't wait to get to hang out with you guys again in Vegas.

Camel

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*