# [Interview #189: ComicCon Wrap-Up - Jason Denzel, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=189#9)

#### Jason Denzel

SATURDAY DINNER 24 July 2004

Saturday was our big day. Robert and Harriet were done with the convention. I think they spent Saturday at the San Diego Zoo. But we had more plans together.

I had invited RJ out to a nice dinner a few weeks before. Melissa Craib from TarValon.net and I decided to co-host this event. We had invited a few people from each of our sites, and also some people from some other big WoT sites. Some of those folks included Mike from Wotmania, Kathana from Dragonmount/DragonCon, Bob Kluttz from Encyclopedia WoT, and a few others.

Only a few of those people were able to attend, so our dinner party ended up being the following: myself, Melissa, Robert Jordan, Harriet, Bob Kluttz, his wife Joan, Dara (who had helped me with the cab earlier in the weekend), Brad Kane (Dragonmount and wotmania member, and Producer for my production company Dragonmount Pictures), Nicole Dubuc (Dragonmount Member), and her friend Darla who is a long-time fan of the series. (See a picture of most of us all at the end of this page)

Melissa and I had made all the arrangements, and so at 7:00 PM (exactly), a taxi pulls up to the restaurant and Harriet and RJ get out.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*