# [Interview #417: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Another Long-Winded Explanation of Various Things, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=417#2)

#### Brandon Sanderson

All right. I've had a few weeks to rest after the marathon working of Feb, March, and early April. So, it's time to start thinking about the future.
*The Gathering Storm*
is turned in. (Quick answers on two questions: First, I don't know if there will be an electronic copy released. Tor doesn't own electronic rights, these belong to Harriet, and I don't know what she and her agent have decided yet. Second, there should be an audiobook released, very close to the initial release of the hardcover.) With
*The Gathering Storm*
done, it's time to look at the projects on my plate.

PROJECT ONE: A MEMORY OF LIGHT PART TWO (The working title is
*Shifting Winds*
, which WILL change.)

I've gone ahead and added a progress bar for this one. As I've said before, I've got a large chunk of it written—but that writing needs quite a bit of work. I pulled a lot of the cleanest, finished sections to use in
*The Gathering Storm*
. The progress bar says 49% completed, but I'd actually put that closer to 25%, if we look at work to be done and not just raw pagecount.

Obviously,
*Shifting Winds*
is the most important project for me to finish. It will be getting the largest share of my attention during the next year, and I'm going to do everything in my power to turn it in a little earlier than the previous book, perhaps even allowing for a release earlier next year than November. (I don't know if getting it in early will help that or not, but I'll try.) My self-imposed goal for finishing
*Winds*
is November 3rd, so I'll have the rough draft done and turned in before I leave on tour.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*