# [Interview #417: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Another Long-Winded Explanation of Various Things, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=417#4)

#### Brandon Sanderson

PROJECT THREE: SCRIBBLER

Many of you have asked about this book. It is a very nifty gearpunk young adult book I wrote in spring of 2007, before the WoT came my way. Unfortunately, I can't justify spending time on it while I've got
*A Memory of Light*
to finish. People have been waiting too long for
*A Memory of Light*
, and now that it's three volumes, I need to make sure I don't delay those volumes. To those of you who were looking forward to
*Scribbler*
, I'm sorry!

PROJECT FOUR: DARK ONE

Another Young Adult book I was working on. It's about half finished, and hasn't been looked at since I was asked to finish the WOT. See the above explanation. This one's not coming anytime soon.

PROJECT FIVE: THE LIAR OF PARTINEL (A.K.A Dragonsteel)

This was the book I was working on for a 2010 release. Epic fantasy. I wrote it in 2007, then put it aside when the WoT was offered to me.

Frankly, I was never pleased with how this book turned out. It was a rough, rough draft—and though I finished it, it wasn't really ever 'finished.' I've tossed it back into the wood chipper of my brain. I can do better, and I just can't ask you to buy this book, as I don't feel satisfied with it. I could revise it, but that would take about six months of work—delaying the second WoT book for six months. That's unacceptable, particularly for a book I feel so unsatisfied with. You'll get a revision of this someday, perhaps.

#### Footnote

Scribbler has since been renamed, "The Rithmatist".

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*