# [Interview #234: KOD Signing Report - Jarrod, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=234#1)

#### Jarrod

I’ve been a long-time lurker on Dragonmount.com and thought I'd jump into this mess and give a little insight into the Lexington, KY signing event. An audio file of the main portion of the event can be found HERE. Here goes!

After following the online reports from other places, I kinda knew what to expect. Though things weren't drastically different from what I had read earlier, this signing was still interesting enough. I have been a fan of the series since way back in high school, but had never attended a signing before. This was my first one so I was just a little nervous.

I arrived at Joseph-Beth Booksellers in Lexington, KY at around 6:00pm. I expected a large crowd, but found that there weren’t many fans there at all. The store had a large counter just inside the entrance holding hardcover copies of quite a few books in the series if not all. Paperback versions were available on another table behind the main stack. Both tables seemed to be getting quite a bit of attention, and then I noticed that almost every other person in the store was either reading or purchasing a copy of
*Knife of Dreams*
.

After making my way back to the signing area, I found several people sitting on the floor. There were to be no chairs at this signing, but no one seemed to mind. I grabbed a nice seat up front between the signing table and the podium. After a short while, the floor area began to get crowded with people coming in and finding their own places on the floor.

At about 6:50pm a lady came out and announced that Mr. Jordan would be coming out at exactly 7:00 to just find a nice spot on the floor and be patient. By my watch it was closer to 7:10pm when he finally made his way out to a warm round of applause from the crowd, which had grown from 10 people to around 250.

#### Footnote

The audio file is no longer available.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*