# [Interview #182: Fast Forward Interview, Entry #11](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=182#11)

#### Tom Schaad

Now, one of the things that we’ve talked about in one of our previous visits was the amount of research and the amount of work that you have in developing the story, the legends that are the basis for the story that you’re telling. And I go to this primarily because there have been people who have been comparing the scope and the length of this work to Tolkien’s work in
*The Lord of the Rings*
. With all of that research and all that work that you’ve done, let’s say that we finish with the story of Rand al’Thor and the turning of the Age, and we’ve come to the end of that. It the possibility of a
*Silmarillion*
afterwards?

#### Robert Jordan

No. No. There’s a possibility that I might do a sort of dictionary of The Wheel of Time, if you will. I keep a word list. When I say, “I keep it,” I’m not...no longer the who actually compiles it. But there is a word list that runs to some nine hundred pages or so at the moment. And that is a list of every name that I’ve used in the books; every word I’ve coined. And it was pointed out to me that if I went through and added definitions and information, basic information, that it would be a useful reference to readers. So I might do that. I don’t know. When it’s all done.

#### Tom Schaad

When it’s all done.

#### Robert Jordan

When it’s all done.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*