# [Interview #182: Fast Forward Interview, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=182#3)

#### Tom Schaad

Now, we’ve talked before about what you go through to create one of these works: the amount of time that you put in; the discipline that you have to exercise in order to carry this story forward. And we’re talking about ten books here. We’re talking about—counting the time that it took to build the world, to think the basic concept...to put the concept together before even the first book was published—we’re talking, what, over twenty years of your life has been spent creating this reality. Is anything different now then it was at the beginning, in terms of how you feel toward the work, or how you approach your work on a day-to-day basis?

#### Robert Jordan

No. My hair is a lot grayer. I work pretty much the same way I always have worked. And because of the way I’ve structured it, I’ve been able to keep it from becoming stale. You see, I sit down to begin a book in this series and I take some of the major events that I want to happen, and I think, “I’m going to put these events into this book.” Or course it turns out that I... Almost always it turns out that I can’t. If I thought there were going to be six major events in this book, it turns out that I can really only put four in. But I have those major events. But how I’m going to get from one to the next, I don’t decide until I get to that book. And it also depends on where I ended the last book...how I ended circumstances in the last book. So everything becomes, in effect, a new novel for me. It’s a new beginning.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*