# [Interview #182: Fast Forward Interview, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=182#4)

#### Tom Schaad

One of the things that I like about these novels, that I really enjoyed, is the increasing complexity. It started off, not a simple book, but, you know, in a relatively isolated area—Emond’s Field, where basically you just had these young people who all of the sudden found themselves on this journey—as the journey has progressed, more and more people—important people in their own right within the story-line—have become involved intimately into it, until now it’s quite a complex tale. And has that made it a more of a challenge for you as an author to...well I guess the only way to say it is to weave all of these elements together into a whole plot of a book?

#### Robert Jordan

I suppose it is. I think I’ve managed to keep on without too much difficulty. It’s important to me... I wanted to start simply, but I knew the characters were going to become more complex themselves. Their knowledge of the world was going to become more complex, and thus the story was going to become more complex. You cannot have characters who are fully rounded and much more aware of the world then they were as children, really, without having a complex story, or otherwise the entire story becomes merely a backdrop.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*