# [Interview #611: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: THE WAY OF KINGS Wins the David Gemmell Legend Award, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=611#4)

#### Brandon Sanderson

One regret of the trip was that after we'd set my dates in stone, we realized I was not only doubly nominated for the David Gemmell Legend Award for Best Novel, but would be leaving Europe only a few days before the ceremony. We looked into changing things around, but the cost—and the fact that I was plain exhausted from the trip—was too much. We went ahead and regretfully returned on schedule.

To my great surprise,
*The Way of Kings*
actually won.

I hadn't been expecting this. I'd been nominated three times before without winning. This year, with two books up for the award (like last year), I was convinced I'd split my votes again and have no shot at it. Beyond that, the competition was pretty steep this year.

I now wish I'd made the extra effort to stick around. Still, my publisher was there, and we'd talked about them accepting the award for me in case I did win. At least we were represented.

Either way, I'm deeply grateful to you all for your votes for
*The Way of Kings*
. Once I get the award, I'll be sure to take photographs and post them up for everyone to admire.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*