# [Interview #737, Entry #2]: La Repubblica - Interview with Robert Jordan](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=737#2)

#### Dario Olivero

In front of Fanucci’s stand a small crowd has gathered. They are young people. They are here because a 50 year old man over 2 metres tall dressed in linen, who walks with a cane, has spectacles and wears a beard like an old biker will be signing copies of the book that has just been translated in Italy. This gentleman, apparently phlegmatic but of determined spirit, is called Robert Jordan. He is the greatest living author of fantasy books. For the few who do not know, the sort of books that has Tolkien as master and hundreds of followers. Jordan, who is considered the heir to Tolkien, has written a work of colossal size entitled The Wheel of Time: ten volumes, each averaging 700 pages. Fanucci has translated and releases at the Turin book fair, the second (
*The Great Hunt*
, 18.50 euros).

Jordan has created a boundless and complete universe, comprising good, evil, heroes, dragons, monsters, and endless searches which has sold over 12 million copies in America. His latest book has surpassed (in the
*New York Times*
list) Stephen King. We are at the epicenter of the fantasy genre, which is generally considered minor only if you do not regard the astounding figures that it achieves. Speaking with this gentleman from Virginia (sic), the impression is that he cannot help but write, that the endless work he grapples with is the child of an irrepressible need.

