# [Interview #1122: Central Library, Seattle, WA, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1122#1)

#### WeiryWriter

I'm a video game developer and the one thing that was running through my mind after reading the Stormlight Archive was “I want to make that” [...] video games[...]

#### Brandon Sanderson

Excellent question. So, other media. I like video games a lot. I remember (you’re going to get a lot of stories tonight, this is what happens, I’m a storyteller) I was 11 years old, my father shipped me off to visit my uncle for the first time on my own. Got put on an airplane and everything, went to Utah from Nebraska. My father gave me two hundreds, two one hundred dollar bills, he said “Pay for your food” and things like this. (You’re laughing you know what happens) I just got my uncle to pay for everything and at the end of it my conscience had gotten to me and I said “Uncle [???] my dad gave me money, I should give this to you to pay for the food”. He just laughed and said “No you’re not going to do that. We’re going to the mall right now. We’re going to spend that money because if you don’t your dad will take it back” And I bought a Nintendo, original NES, with my two hundred dollars at KB Toys. And I came back with it and my dad said “Where did you get that?”
I love video games and I want to be involved, some of you may have noticed I did these novellas for Infinity Blade, which you can read online but if you don’t play the games they won’t make any sense. I’m just going to warn you right there. We have sold the rights to Mistborn but we have entered some development problems, the video game industry is almost as bad as the movie industry when it comes to delays. Studios fall through, get divided, things like this. I’m still hoping but the deal was I got to write the story and all the dialogue for the video game. It’s going to be (we are going to do it) an action RPG, the model I told them I wanted to use was Infamous, which was one of my favorites from lately, in the Mistborn world. If we can get that working then I bet we can get a Stormlight book turned into a video game.
As movies go, movies are even harder. I was on the phone with movie producers right before I came here. I got a phone call, and we’re doing a lot of that, a lot of discussion, we’ve sold a lot of rights, we’ve seen a lot of [...] So right now we have Legion, Emperor’s Soul, Mistborn, and Steelheart all have significant motion but far from actually done. And the Wheel of Time is kind of off-again, on-again, off-again, on-again with adaptations.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*