# [Interview #1122: Central Library, Seattle, WA, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1122#2)

#### WeiryWriter

I want to know what process you go through for building vocabulary. Also, do you use a thesaurus?

#### Brandon Sanderson

My vocabulary development comes through reading other people’s books and seeing what cool words they use and writing them down. And I can often pinpoint who I learned which word from. Like miasma I learned from Anne McCaffrey. Just seeing the words they use and looking them up when i don’t know them. Do I use a thesaurus? I do use a thesaurus but only to come up with a word I know I should be using. There’s two times I use it. One, when I come to a word and I know there’s a word there but I don’t know what it is yet. The other time I use a thesaurus, which is really useful, is when I’m naming something. Like when I was naming the Reckoners, I need a cool word for this team. One that Marvel or DC hasn’t used yet \*fake exasperated\* They used everything \*end fake exasperated\* So I may use a thesaurus, but using a thesaurus is dangerous. It’s a good tool but it’s a dangerous tool for a writer. Because you don’t want to use a word because it sounds cool, usually you want to use the right word. That can be difficult to balance.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*