# [Interview #1122: Central Library, Seattle, WA, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1122#9)

#### WeiryWriter

Do you know what’s wrong with Stephen Leeds?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes I do know what’s wrong with Stephen Leeds… Legion is another novella I’ve done that’s got a fun story behind it. I was in a writing group with a mutual friend Dan Wells, he writes twisted books about people who are messed up, and he was doing a book about schizophrenia. He was deep into a schizophrenic’s mind, he put in lot of research into these things and meanwhile I'm over here being me and I’m like “Oh this would make a great magic system” and like “No, no, no, really if you had a schizophrenic and what if they heard voices and saw hallucinations, but the hallucinations helped them. Like there superpower was seeing hallucinations. You should write this” and I tried to convince him to write it and tried until finally he said “Brandon, write the dumb book, it’s not my book it’s yours” So I wrote it and it’s called Legion. [explains a little about the concept of Legion]

#### WeiryWriter

So is he getting worse?

#### Brandon Sanderson

\*hesitates\* Over the course of the series he is getting worse and worse, despite what he says.

#### Tags

Legion

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*