# [Interview #749: Afternoon Tea with Brandon Sanderson - Luckers, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=749#1)

#### Luckers

Hey everyone, so I was down in Melbourne for SupaNova, during which Brandon was in attendance, dressed in a Ta’veren Tee and sporting a hat that kind of reminded me of Mat’s, which, as everyone knows, is an
*angreal*
.

Heh, in any case he took some time to answer some questions, first in the green room on the Saturday where we sat down and had a good chat—not just about the questions, but in general, which was fun—and then he allowed me to hang around awkwardly on the Sunday and get through the last few that we hadn’t managed to touch on yet.

Quick provision though, Brandon was very clear with me that he writes with the notes beside him, mainly because he can’t keep it all in his head (four million words people. Four million). As such the answers he gave are honest, and out of his impressions from the notes, but he retains the right to correct against them later, if he’s misremembered something.

By the same note, these are drawn out from my short-hand notations during the interview, and if I’ve mistakenly misquoted something, Brandon has the right to say, ‘James, dude, I didn’t say it like that. Fix it’, and all blame shall be with me.

I may also add to this after the signing and Q&A on Wednesday in Sydney, so check back.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*