# [Interview #749: Afternoon Tea with Brandon Sanderson - Luckers, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=749#2)

#### Luckers

What happened to Moiraine’s original
*angreal*
? The one she had in the Two Rivers?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Oh, you mean the fat man with... no, wait that was Rand....

#### LUCKERS

Yeah, Moiraine’s one was an ivory woman.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Yeah, yeah. You know, that’s a good question, because it’s odd, the notes specifically said she got the
*angreal*
as one of her wishes...

#### LUCKERS

Ah, so it’s definitely not the
*angreal*
Lanfear had? People have asked, I think because both were bracelets.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

No, it’s definitely a different
*angreal*
. But yes, if she had another
*angreal*
, why would she ask for one?

#### LUCKERS

Maybe the Finns took her original one. I mean she was naked when they found her, so they took...

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Yeah, maybe \*looks dubious\*.

#### LUCKERS

Or maybe it’s still in Cairhien with the rest of her stuff.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Yeah, but it would still be odd, that she’d ask, if she had another. Yeah, so, I don’t know, sorry.

#### Footnote

There are not two bracelets; the description in
*The Fires of Heaven*
is the exact same description of that given in
*Towers of Midnight*
. In other words, Moiraine's new
*angreal*
is the same one she clawed away from Lanfear; her old one disappeared.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*