# [Interview #531: Pat's Fantasy Hotlist: New Brandon Sanderson Interview, Entry #10](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=531#10)

#### Patrick

In your previous fantasy series, you had one main character or plotline, with only a few secondary characters and subplots. But here in
*The Way of Kings*
, you expand this to three main plotlines and dozens of secondary characters. Was this division of the book into three main protagonists rather than just a single "lead" something that you had intended from the first draft, or did this story division develop over time and many drafts?

#### Brandon Sanderson

With how long this book has been around, it's hard to say what was in the first draft and what wasn't. If we look at
*The Way of Kings Prime*
—the book I wrote back in 2003, then tossed aside and rewrote to create this book—I did have quite a strong multi-character focus. It's always been something I wanted to do. I actually scaled back a little bit for this draft. In the previous version I used six main characters; there was another character who has not yet appeared in the new version, and Jasnah was a main character with as many viewpoints as the others. It was too distracting, too much to juggle. So I pulled back a little bit. But to me, this series is not about one person. That's just how I conceived it from the start, and that's what I want to do with it. That will continue.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*