# [Interview #943: Reddit 2013 (WoT), Entry #12](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=943#12)

#### [depricatedzero (March 2013)](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/1alj0w/sanderson_ama/c8z4fwk)

I can't wait! I had a couple questions I posted asking for another AMA from you a couple months back. I'll reword them here to be more concise, if you feel up to answering.

My questions are more Mistborn related than WOT, so wouldn't be entirely appropriate to the topic of your planned AMA. I got into Mistborn after reading
*The Gathering Storm*
—it's now my favorite series, above even WOT. Anyway, my point is this: you gained a number of fans through the Wheel of Time.

So first: Do you feel like your work on WOT has overshadowed your other works at all?

Second: Any plans you can share for the future of the Mistborn series?

And third: Looking back, how was the ride? Were there moments where you despaired of finishing it, or was it a constant fanboy-rush?

#### Brandon Sanderson

First: It probably has right now. I have no problem with that. Being able to work on the Wheel of Time was a literal dream come true for me. If, at the end of my career, the thing I'm remembered for most is being involved with something I love, then I'll be happy I'm being remembered at all. That said, I hope to create some things in my own life that are worth remembering.

I don't know if I can or should strive for the height of popularity the Wheel of Time reached. But I never did get into this for popularity. I did it, and do it, to tell the stories I like telling—and whether one overshadows another isn't a very big deal to me.

2) I do want to get to the modern day trilogy eventually, but more and more, I've been itching to do a few southern continent books. They have a cool way of interacting with the magic.

3) In working on any book, there are many moments of beating your head against the wall. There were a particularly large number of those working on these books—they were far more difficult to do than my own work. The ride was a great one, but was not without its moments of frustration as things weren't clicking, or I missed something important and had to rewrite to get it in, or a character just wouldn't come out right.

#### depricatedzero

Wow, thank you for the thoughtful reply. I had the pleasure of meeting you at a
*Towers of Midnight*
signing, and one thing I keep thinking about it is how truly happy you appeared being there. Every other author I've met seemed to take signings as a chore, and they always felt rushed, dispassionate even. Talking to you, I got the feeling you really enjoyed being there and getting to be a part of the series. Like a fan living his dream. I thought that was amazing.

As my questions go, I like trying to stir thought. It struck me that that's a situation I couldn't even conceive of being in, but which must have some impact and consideration. I already hold a deep respect for you, and that just vindicates it.

As Mistborn goes, again it's my Favorite series. Not just of yours, capital F. You've replaced Orson Scott Card as my favorite author with it. That's a massive tease haha, I would love to read either one. Can you say more about the way they interact with the magic on the southern continent?

And on point 3: That sounds like my job - programming. Haha. I can entirely understand that.

Thanks for answering!

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*