# [Interview #516: Pat's Fantasy Hotlist: Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #12](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=516#12)

#### Patrick

Regarding
*The Way of Kings*
, given the fact that the synopsis doesn't shed much light on what the tale is about, what can you tell us about the book and the rest of the
*Stormlight Archive*
sequence? You know, a little something to whet your fans' appetite!

#### Brandon Sanderson

I'm actually preparing a blog post on this. I've had a very tough time describing
*The Way of Kings*
. I've been working on this book for many, many years. Parts of it I can trace back 15, 17 years ago to my very early days as an aspiring writer in my teens. Beyond that, I'm planning a very large story that spans many books. So what this book is and means to me is a lot more extensive than with other books I've worked on.

Because of that it's really defied my ability to describe it. What can they expect? Well, it's about the length of
*Lord of Chaos*
. It will be much more epic and larger in scope than anything I have published so far on my own. There's a whole lot more worldbuilding to it—I have somewhere in the neighborhood of 200,000 words of worldbuilding notes, scattered across several documents, that I'm now coalescing into a wiki.

I don't know that this is new information, but the story of the
*Stormlight Archive*
revolves around ten orders of knights, each of whom had their own magics and abilities, who fell thousands of years ago for reasons no one understands. Some say they betrayed mankind, others say they were destroyed, others say they were charlatans all along.

The
*Stormlight Archive*
deals with the history of these knights, discovering what happened to them. It also deals, perhaps, with their redemption. Another big theme has to do with the onset of a magical industrial revolution, so to speak. Think of this as Renaissance-era technology where people are discovering how to harness magic and use it in practical ways. I've always wanted to do a story about the dawning of something like the Age of Legends in the Wheel of Time books.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*