# [Interview #1126: Barnes & Noble (Newnan), Entry #27](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1126#27)

#### Question

You talked about creativity earlier, and if you look back on your career until this point as a writer, how have you changed as a writer over that time? What has writing done for you as a point of self-improvement?

#### Brandon Sanderson

What has writing done for me as a point of self-improvement over the course of my career. That’s excellent. I discovered writing when I was 15, that was when I was this young, gangly boy who is trying to figure out what to do with his life and I found solace in books and writing, which I had not done when I was younger. It was a teacher who handed me, it was a book called /Dragonsbane/, when I was 8th grade that changed my life. What it did, right off the bat was give me purpose, and that is so important. Knowing there is something you want to do. All through college, you know I had friends who “I’m taking this degree because it’s what was expected of me but I don’t know if this is what I want to do”. I knew what I wanted to do, and knowing that. That alone has been worth it’s weight in gold. Spending the time writing and practicing gave me confidence, that’s been very important. Like when I finished that first book, it took me three years to write it. I said “You know what, I can do this. I can create this thing.” Then being able to see myself get better and better and better, the confidence from that was great. The big decision I also made late in my career, before I got published, I had to decide who I was doing this for. Because once you’ve got a dozen unpublished books, you start asking yourself the questions everyone is asking you. At the end I just decided this idea of “I’m just going to keep doing this. If I am 70 and I have a hundred unpublished manuscripts on my dresser. I love doing this, it is very fulfilling. I’m getting these stories out of my head, I can see myself getting better. I’m not going to be a failure if I have a hundred unpublished manuscripts, I’m going to be more of a success than if I never wrote them.” And that decision is what drove me to write /The Way of Kings/, because before I’d been really hunting how to get published and trying to write things like I saw getting published and people kept telling me “Your books are too long” so I’ve been writing these shorter ones. And I just said “I don’t care what you people are saying, I’m going to write the most awesome epic of the style I would love to read, that I don’t feel enough people are doing. It’s going to have this crazy world and all these characters and all this stuff and I know noone is ever going to want to publish it, but I’m going to write it” And that’s when I wrote /The Way of Kings/, it was right after that decision.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*