# [Interview #1126: Barnes & Noble (Newnan), Entry #47](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1126#47)

#### Question

I was deployed in Afghanistan when I read The Way of Kings. And I was wondering how do you put yourself in the mind of a soldier? Because it was very--When they got to the Shatttered Plains it felt like I was reading a story about myself--Reading about how the rank structure, that was really-- It wasn’t quite the same but--
Reading it, I was already frustrated with my position in the Air Force at the time. So reading it was “Aw yeah…”
For me, when I first went there they put all our chembags in one room and they were all strapped down to pallets. And when I got there I was like “Aren’t we supposed to have like gasmasks?”

#### Brandon Sanderson

I have a good friend and I asked them when I interviewed them and they helped me.
I’ve got a good friend. His name is actually Skar--he’s the bridgeman Skar, I put him in the book because he helped me so much. who is in the army. He had lots of advice for me on how to make everything work.
The stuff that goes on, like one time he had-- Some higher-up decided that for some reason they couldn’t have sidearms. Like they weren’t authorized, his group was not authorized. They weren’t going to give them guns, they were out there being soldiers and they couldn’t have guns. Fortunately a general heard this “What?!?” and took out his gun, handed it to Skar, and said “I’m giving him one, you can court martial me” or whatever.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*