# [Interview #898: The Arched Doorway: Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=898#6)

#### Rebecca Lovatt

Also, not so much about your stories in particular...but you've written a lot of different types of books, the huge epic fantasies, short stories...different types of fantasy, and the odd ones like
*Legion*
. Which do you enjoy writing the most?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Answering questions like this one is difficult; it's like "Pick your favorite food". If you eat that food every day you're going to eventually hate it...or slowly find the food less and less enjoyable. For me, that's how it is with writing.

Epic Fantasy is my favorite form, but if I'm only ever doing Epic Fantasy, I feel like I will get burned out on it, and I'll stop enjoying it as much and so I don't want to see that happen. So when I start to feel like it, I let myself, within certain bounds, write whatever I want to write so that when I get back to Epic Fantasy I'm feeling fresh. It's not a matter of what I like to write the most, it's a matter of what I'm feeling like at the time. Sometimes you may not want to eat your favorite food.

#### Rebecca Lovatt

And when you're switching between these different types of stories, are there any major difficulties that you face?

#### Brandon Sanderson

If I do, then it means something's going wrong and I kind of need to look at why I'm trying to write it... Switching is not hard, usually. You get to know your writing style, you get comfortable with how you approach things.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*