# [Interview #837: DragonCon 2012 - AMOL Update Panel, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=837#7)

#### Question

I was kind of wondering about the accents. I'm sorry if you've been asked this before, but I always sort of imagined that the Seanchan had like Texas accents. Is that right?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, he said Texan for Seanchan.

#### Question

Oh, okay. And the Aiel. Do they sound like Vikings?

#### Jennifer Liang

They sound Slavic. The accents is in the Wheel of Time FAQ, so if you go to wotfaq.dragonmount.com, one of the articles there is, "What are the accents?", like what are their real world analogues, and so Seanchan is Texan—that's why I joke that my husband is Seanchan, because he is a Chinese-Texan that's got the accent; his name is James if you haven't caught that yet—and the Aiel are Slavic, Andor is British Isles...um...I can't remember the others, and it's straight from Robert Jordan; someone wrote him a letter like back in '96 and asked like what are the accents, and so this person got a letter back, and they posted it to the Wheel of Time newsgroup that was like the main group for Wheel of Time discussion back then, and so [they put it in] the WoTFAQ because this was something that people had been asking about, so it's there.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*