# [Interview #837: DragonCon 2012 - AMOL Update Panel, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=837#9)

#### Question

Okay, first of all, I'd like to say I was a little scared with a new writer coming into the series...

#### Brandon Sanderson

Justifiably so... [laughter]

#### Question

I'd like to say, when I read the first book, it was like he didn't pass.

#### Brandon

Well, thank you.

#### Question

How did it feel to be the chosen one?

#### Brandon

I've told this story, some of you have heard it before. When I got the phone call, I...it came out of the blue, like I really had no idea. Everybody knew before me. Paul knew before me, I'm pretty sure—yeah, he's nodding; he's an editor for Tor; he's like "Yeah, I knew"—everyone knew before me, and I was foolish enough to be asleep when Harriet called me, so I just got it as a voicemail message. "Please will you call me back; there's something I want to talk to you about." And so I had to spend hours trying to get ahold of Harriet, being like "Robert Jordan's wife just called me," and I was so nervous I couldn't speak. And I eventually called up Tor because nobody was answering—my editor and my agent—nobody. And I got hold of Patrick Nielsen Hayden and and it really is, what he said is "Oh yeah,
*you*
...it's probably what you think it is, I'll have her call you back." And I'm like, [makes a distressed face, audience laughs], "What do I think it is!?" He didn't even tell me, he wouldn't even tell me, he just said that.

And so, I eventually....Harriet calls me back and says, "Well, I was just wondering...we're putting together a small list of authors that we'd like to consider for this—finishing my husband's series—and I was wondering if you would be interested." She later mentioned that the short list included one name, which was mine. [laughter] But she didn't want to be backed into the corner until she made her final decision. And so in that one she asked, and I said yes. And for those of you who have heard this story, I'm sorry, but I'll repeat it. That night, I was scared out of my wits. I laid in bed—is that the right term?—I lay in bed just completely terrified of what I'd just done. And I really, seriously considered backing out because I realized that nobody could write the books that Robert Jordan was going to write. And so, in taking this project, I was going to fail. And I believe I
*have*
failed in a slight amount, in that nobody can replace him, right? As good of a job as I can do, I cannot do the job he was going to do, and by definition, the job he was going to do is the right book.

And because of that I almost said no, and then in considering that, I had this like even deeper fear that I would say no, and that they would get someone else and those people would screw it up way more than I would screw it up. [laughter] And the phrase I frequently use—and I do believe this—laying there that night, I said, "How many authors out there have read the books as many times as I have? There probably aren't many, if any. I'm not the best author out there, but I'm a pretty good one. I'm not the biggest Wheel of Time fan out there, but I'm a pretty big one. And if you do the intersection of pretty decent authors and pretty decent Wheel of Time fans, there's not a lot of people in that. And I really feel that if Robert Jordan can't write the book, that kind of writer in me said, "Well, I wanna do it, because I feel like then at least somebody who cares has ahold of it. And I feel that I will screw it up the least."

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*