# [Interview #649, Entry #2]: COT Signing Report - Ajierene](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=649#2)

#### Ajierene

I arrived there at 6:40 pm. The line already had about 30 people in it, down a hallway just off the main entrance of the library. I bought my book and walked to the end of the line. Standing in front of me was a nice guy by the name of Sean (I later found out) who had started reading the books on a whim. We spent the time waiting for Robert Jordan to step into our presence talking about the book and why we started reading it; as well as our expectations for the personality of the author. Presently a man walked past us with a woman. The man himself was not tall, barely taller than my 5'2" and the woman shorter than that. It took a moment, and the trademark hat was a big clue, to realize that this was Robert Jordan himself walking past me to the desk. I presume the woman with him is his wife.

#### Robert Jordan

He got to the front of the line and turned to say a few words, though short and unable to see him, I could clearly hear his deep voice above the crowd. He spoke, "Many of you ask me, at these signings, when the next book will come out? Why you ask me this when you haven't even read the one in your hand, I don't know. I tell you now, on my mother's soul that the very next book will be, without a doubt, on the bookshelves, just as soon as I finish writing it." OK, so that wasn't completely verbatim, but you get the idea. He followed this with telling us that he will try to get the series done in the next two books, but will not guarantee it. After a short description on how to properly pronounce the names of the characters he got on with the book signing. I promptly forgot how to properly pronounce anything.

#### Footnote

Ajierene's physical description seems to contradict every other description, and video as well. RJ was over 6' tall and described by most as 'a big man'. Harriet is not incredibly short.

