# [Interview #727: Hero of Ages Q&A - TWG, Entry #31](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=727#31)

#### [VegasDev (16 October 2008)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129167#msg129167)

The other lake in Alendi's bumps?

#### [Brandon Sanderson (17 October 2008)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129235#msg129235)

A manifestation of Ruin's gathered consciousness, much like the dark mists in book two. The lake was still around in Vin's era, but had been moved under ground. (Note that the Well is a very similar manifestation. You've also seen one other manifestation like this....)

#### [PETER AHLSTROM](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129240#msg129240)

Such as...this?
> *The "lake" was barely ten feet deep—more like a pool. Its water was a crystalline blue, and Raoden could see no inlets or outlets.*

If that's what you're hinting at...I never thought of the connection before! I just kept thinking of
*Aether of Night*
, and never thought of this pool at all.

#### [BRANDON SANDERSON](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129257#msg129257)

Both are accurate, but the first is what I meant, as most people here don't have access to
*Aether*
.

#### [CHAOS](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129243#msg129243)

I'm also thinking that the Dor in Elantris is another Shard of Adonalsium. Certainly in the
*Elantris*
world, where the Dor came from is rather ambiguous, which I expected it would be. Of course, if other Shards of Adonalsium do exist, the Dor could have come from that source.

#### [BRANDON SANDERSON](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129258#msg129258)

I will RAFO from here on the other Shards of Adonalsium, as it would be better for me not to give spoilers. Please feel free to speculate. Readers have met four shards other than Ruin and Preservation.

#### [PETER AHLSTROM](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129271#msg129271)

Have we met these four by name, or just by influence? I can't think of a name that would go with the one that the Elantris lake is a manifestation of.

Hoid could be one? I know nothing his purpose other than that he shows up in lots of different books, sometimes begging and sometimes telling stories. Since most of these series happen on different planets (though two of them may happen on the same planet as each other), I'm assuming he has mad planet-hopping skills.

...Nightblood...

#### [BRANDON SANDERSON (20 OCTOBER)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129379#msg129379)

Ookla, I'm going to be tight lipped on this, as I don't want to give things away for future books. But I'll tell you this:

You've interacted with two directly.
  
One is a tough call. You've never met the Shard itself, but you've seen its power.
  
The other one you have not met directly, but have seen its influence.

#### [CHAOS (18 OCTOBER)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129292#msg129292)

I thought Nightblood was explained sufficiently for my tastes in Warbreaker, so I doubt that it is a Shard, but I've been plenty wrong before. Also, I don't know if Hoid could even be a Shard. Certainly he has mean planet-hopping skills, but I don't know what purpose a celestial storyteller would have in this universe. He doesn't really have the same kind of power as Ruin or Preservation did, so normally I would rule him out right off the bat. But it is possible that these Shards come in many shapes, not just in the near-deific quantity Ruin or Preservation had. I think it's a bit of a stretch to say Hoid is a Shard... but, then again, I don't have any ideas for what those four other Shards are.

Maybe Hoid is just a traveler trying to find remnants of Adonalsium and stories about them. He doesn't need to be a shard, I suppose.

#### [BRANDON SANDERSON (20 OCTOBER)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129387#msg129387)

This is slightly a tangent, but here is a relevant chunk from the
*Warbreaker*
Annotations. As this won't be posted for months, I'll put it here as a sneak preview.

> [Chapter Thirty-Two](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/annotation/410/Warbreaker-Chapter-Thirty-Two)
>
> This whole scene came about because I wanted an interesting way to delve into the history. Siri needed to hear it, and I felt that many readers would want to know it. However, that threatened to put me into the realm of the dreaded info dump.
>
> And so I brought in the big guns. This cameo is so obvious (or, at least, someday it will be) that I almost didn’t use the name Hoid for the character, as I felt it would be too obvious. The first draft had him using one of his other favorite pseudonyms. However, in the end, I decided that too many people would be confused (or, at least, even more confused) if I didn’t use the same name. So here it is. And if you have no idea what I’m talking about. . .well, let’s just say that there’s a lot more to this random appearance than you might think.

#### [CHAOS (17 OCTOBER)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129267#msg129267)

Brandon, I believe in one of Sazed's epigraphs, he actually called it "Adonasium" rather than what you are referring to here, which is "Adonalsium". I'm thinking that's just a typo, right?

I don't suppose you could tell us which book series of yours will tell us more about Adonalsium, would you? You know, just so us theorizers on the forum know when to properly theorize about these things...

#### [BRANDON SANDERSON](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129320#msg129320)

Well, I guess this means that the proofreaders did not add the "L" when I marked the error on the manuscript.(sigh). Yes, the correct spelling is Adonalsium. I will try to get this fixed for the paperback, but I've been trying to get that blasted steel/iron error in the back of book one fixed for two years now. . .

If it helps, Sazed would probably under-pronounce the "L" as that letter, like in Tindwyl's name, is said very softly in Terris.

As for your other question, you will have to wait and see. Now, you could search my old books for clues, but I would caution against this. While there are hints in these, they are not yet canon. Just as I changed how things were presented in the Mistborn books during editing, I would have fixed a lot in these books during revision. Beyond that, reading them would give big spoilers for books yet to be released.
*White Sand*
,
*Dragonsteel*
, and
*Way of Kings*
in particular are going to be published some day for almost certain. (Though in very different forms).
*Aether of Night*
should be safe, as should
*Final Empire*
prime and Mistborn prime, though of those three, only
*Aether*
is worth reading, and then only barely. (It is still pretty bad).

#### Footnote

Peter's quote is from
*Elantris*
. It's the pool that Raoden finds in the mountains above Elantris.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*