# [Interview #727, Entry #43]: Hero of Ages Q&A - TWG](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=727#43)

#### [Kaimipono (16 October 2008)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129205#msg129205)

What was Vin
*supposed*
to do at the end of
*Well of Ascension*
? How exactly did not-using the power, end up releasing Ruin? I still don't get how that all worked. Can you explain it?

#### [Brandon Sanderson (17 October 2008)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129246#msg129246)

What was she supposed to do? Well, this is difficult to answer, since the prophecies have been changed and shifted so much. Originally, the prophesies intended for a person to go take the power every thousand years and become a protector of mankind for a period of time. Someone to keep an eye on Ruin in Preservation's absence and watch over the world as he would have done. Imagine an avatar who arrives every thousand years and lives for their lifetime blessing the people with the power of Preservation, renewing Ruin's prison, and generally being a force for protection. (Note that Ruin wouldn't have gotten out if the prison wasn't renewed, he'd simply have been able to touch the world a little bit more.) Obviously, it changed a LOT during the years that Ruin was playing with things.

What should she have done? Well, Ruin's release was inevitable. Even if she hadn't let him go, the world would have 'wound down' eventually. The ashfalls would have grown worse over the centuries, and the next buildup of the Well might not have come in time for them to do anything. Or, perhaps, mankind would have found a way to adapt. But Ruin was going to get himself out eventually, so the choice Vin made was all right. There weren't really any good choices at this point. She could have decided to take the power and become a 'good' Lord Ruler, trying to keep the world from falling apart. Of course, she would have had to make herself immortal with Hemalurgy to make that work right. And since she was already tainted, chances are good she wouldn't have ended up any better than the Lord Ruler himself.

