# [Interview #727, Entry #71]: Hero of Ages Q&A - TWG](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=727#71)

#### [sporkify (18 October 2008)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129282#msg129282)

And this is more towards the whole physics stuff, but is Feruchemy really balanced? If it gives diminishing returns, wouldn't this end up as a net loss of power?

#### [Brandon Sanderson (20 October 2008)](http://twg.17thshard.com/index.php?topic=6655.msg129384#msg129384)

It doesn't diminish. Or, well, it does—but only if you compound it. You get 1 for 1 back, but compounding the power requires an expenditure of the power itself. For instance, if you are weak for one hour, you can gain the lost strength for one hour. But that's not really that much strength. After all, you probably weren't as weak as zero people during that time. So if you want to be as strong as two men, you couldn't do it for a full hour. You'd have to spend some energy to compound, then spend the compounded energy itself.

In more mathematical terms, let's say you spend one hour at 50% strength. You could then spend one hour at 150% strength, or perhaps 25 min at 200% strength, or maybe 10min at 250% strength. Each increment is harder, and therefore 'strains' you more and burns your energy more quickly. And since most Feruchemists don't store at 50% strength, but instead at something like 80% strength (it feels like much more when they do it, but you can't really push the body to that much forced weakness without risking death) you can burn through a few day's strength in a very short time if you aren't careful.

#### Footnote

When Brandon says "compounding" here, he is speaking in a purely Feruchemical sense.

