# [Interview #535: Mad Hatter's Bookshelf and Book Review: Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=535#3)

#### Mad Hatter

If you can tell us, what's the tentative title for Book 2? And estimated release date? I know you've plenty left to tackle with WoT 14 so we'll take anything you say with that in mind.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Good. The tentative title was originally
*Highprince of War*
. I’m not decided on that yet, because it might be Shallan’s book, not Dalinar’s book. It depends on whose flashbacks I decide to tell, and which ones will complement the events of the next book. Though I have an expansive outline for the series, I really have to sit down and get a more detailed outline for the second book before I decide which title I want. If it’s Dalinar’s book, it will be
*Highprince of War*
. If it’s Shallan’s book it will not be. Tentative release date? I’m going to start on
*A Memory of Light*
January first, and it will be published probably about three months after I finish it. (Knowing how Tor’s publishing my books these days.) It will just depend on how long that takes to write. Then I will start on The Stormlight Archive 2 after that. I don’t anticipate that book being as hard to write as
*A Memory of Light*
, which is going to take a lot of time and a lot of work. Best case is that I finish
*A Memory of Light*
in August of next year, it gets published in November, and I write the sequel to
*The Way of Kings*
starting immediately after that and finish it in the middle of the next year so it can be published November 2012. That’s the best-case scenario. But it’s what I hope to be able to do; we’ll see.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*