# [Interview #535: Mad Hatter's Bookshelf and Book Review: Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=535#8)

#### Mad Hatter

Terry Brooks recently said he'll be doing more Shannara books and that he wishes he didn't use the title
*The Elfstones of Shannara*
already since his new arc is basically all about the Elfstones. Did your reticence to titling
*The Gathering Storm*
as such have anything to do with
*The Stormlight Archive*
?
*The Gathering Storm*
certainly seems like a perfect title for a book in the series.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah. I didn’t choose
*The Gathering Storm*
. If you know the story, it all happened while I was asleep, and they said this was the title they were going to use. There were a couple of reasons. Number one, I knew I was releasing a book soon afterward that was in a series called
*The Stormlight Archive*
. Perhaps I pay a little too much attention to making sure that I don’t feel like I’m repeating myself. Kaladin in
*The Way of Kings*
was originally named Merin, and one reason I changed his name was because it sounded too much like Perrin. He had been Merin for eight years or so, but when I was just a Wheel of Time fan, it was okay to have a name that sounded a little like a Wheel of Time character’s. But now I may be a little hypersensitive to that.

Honestly, the greatest reason I might have preferred
*The Gathering Storm*
to have a different title is that I felt it was just a little bit generic, more so than recent titles in the series have been. Recent Wheel of Time titles have been beautiful; I love
*Crossroads of Twilight*
as a title, for example. But
*The Gathering Storm*
is a good title for a lot of other reasons, and it works very well for the first of that sequence. So I was satisfied with it even though it wasn’t the title I would have chosen.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*