# [Interview #1112: JordanCon 6 - Cosmere questions, Entry #25](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1112#25)

#### Question

Did Ben or Isaac design the glyphs in The Stormlight Archive?

#### Isaac Stewart, Ben McSweeney

I did. So here's an interesting thing the-- [trolling] no I'm not going to tell you that. \*lots of laughter\* I think it would be a spoiler for Book 3. Bridge Four in Alethi, you guys ready? Vev Gesheh. Vev is the number four, Gesheh is bridge. When I design the glyphs, I always make sure I know how to say it in Alethi before I design the glyph.

#### Ben

Is there a reason for that?

#### Isaac

There is a reason for that.

#### Ben

Are you going to tell us what that reason is?

#### Isaac

Nope. The glyph writing system is just a-- You are supposed to be able to look at it and say "Hey that's-- That means bridge" but it could be elongated, it could be changed, it could be-- but the same shapes are in there and that means "bridge" or whatever else that is. The glyphs don't really relate to pronunciation. You learn them from seeing the glyph and knowing what the word is for that. But the people, the people who create the glyphs have a different process from those who read them. It can be somewhat difficult to draw the glyphs, we generally go through several iterations of different looks of things before we come up with something that we like.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*