# [Interview #945: AMOL Signing Report - DomaniSway, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=945#1)

#### DomaniSway

I see you, Dragonmount.

Thanks for checking out the following recap of the Los Angeles (Huntington Beach) book signing of
*A
Memory of Light*
with Brandon Sanderson and Harriet McDougal. My fellow Memory Keepers and I were happier than a Brown in a library to be chosen to help out and make this signing awesome. We started arriving at around 3 pm and were surprised to find that not a few avid fans had already arrived, eagerly awaiting the start of the event.

Our Memory Keepers were a diverse group comprised of Rebecca, our "First Among Equals," Nathan, Ken, Joe, Rob, Carlos, and Kyle. Since Barnes & Noble took care of all of the setting up, we were able to focus on games and projects to keep everyone occupied while they were waiting. We had both drawing and sculpting setups, as well as extremely challenging trivia sheets for people to test their Wheel of Time knowledge. Want to take the challenge? You can find a copy here.

Stumped? No worries, the answers are posted here.

Those who participated in our sometimes fun, sometimes diabolical diversions were rewarded with various swag items including
*The Way of Kings*
in paperback, WoT phone cases, backpacks, and "Tai'shar Malkier" bumper stickers.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*