# [Interview #945: AMOL Signing Report - DomaniSway, Entry #21](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=945#21)

#### DomaniSway

At this point, in the interest of time, the Q&A ended so that, as Brandon said, "We can do a reading. We meaning Harriet." She read the opening paragraph of the wind rose chapter, and it was magical.

Following that, the signing began. As Harriet said, "I love you all, but I hate midnight." In consideration of that, everyone was allowed 3 books their first time through the line, and anyone who wanted additional books signed or any personalization had to go through the line a second time after Harriet left. Before that could happen though, they had the daunting task of signing books for approximately 500 people! Here are some cool things that happened as people made their way to the front of the line: [photos not available]

With all of these awesome and interesting things happening, the highlight for me was when out of the blue, Harriet poked me in the ribs and said, "He looks like Perrin! Doesn't he look just like Perrin?" I was so surprised that of course I immediately agreed, and that is forever more what I'll remember when I think of Perrin Aybara. Not that I even saw the guy. Sorry Harriet.

All too soon, it was time for Harriet to say goodnight. The Memory Keepers then enlisted Brandon's help to give out the last of our remaining swag to the die-hards who remained for personalization.

Then we breathed a collective sigh of relief, watched the line dwindle down to the last person (a B&N employee who just got off of work), took a moment for one last picture, and made our exit.

We hope you enjoyed this brief recap of the awesome night we had here in Huntington Beach. We are incredibly grateful to Dragonmount for choosing us to be a part of the
*Memory of Light*
Tour, Barnes & Noble, and of course to Brandon and Harriet for making all of this possible. Thank you all for checking out our event. May you always find water and shade.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*