# [Interview #527, Entry #10]: DragonCon 2010 Q&A Report - Marie Curie](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=527#10)

#### Question

You may have been asked this before, I'm not sure, I'm just kind of curious. Dealing with the, when you were going through the process of when you decided to write this, and going through the notes and like learning the ending and everything... Working on somebody else's project, like, when you found things out as a fan who's followed it for so long, were there parts that were almost kind of hard for you to write? Like, maybe you didn't anticipate this happening? And it's like, you were like, "Holy crap!" I'm sure you wouldn't have... Were there parts that you were like, just wow, this is just really weird having to write this?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I can talk on that for a sec here. Yes, in two different ways. There are some scenes that are very Robert Jordan scenes that are the type of scenes that I would never put...that I would just never write, just never naturally. I can only think of two scenes that were...one scene that way, and one scene that was just, I was completely not anticipating it, and so my brain had to... It wasn't hard to write when I actually got to the scene. But when I first read the notes, I'm like, "How am I going to do that?" Does that make sense?

#### Audience

Yeah.

#### Brandon Sanderson

The first one you've already read. It occurs in
*The Gathering Storm*
, and it involves someone's backside. Which is not, you know, it's very appropriate to the Wheel of Time, but I don't generally write spankings into my books. And so, I actually said, "I have to write a spanking scene?!?" All right, make it the best spanking scene ever!

The other scene has not come up yet so I can't tell you what it is. It was just a "wow." It was kind of that, "How did I miss that?" in part, and also a "I really need to make this really work really well." And anyway, I can tell you about that next year.

