# [Interview #527: DragonCon 2010 Q&A Report - Marie Curie, Entry #11](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=527#11)

#### Question

I apologize if this has been asked, but I haven't been stalking you. Do you agree with Robert Jordan that we have enough information to know who killed Asmodean?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Are you from Theoryland? First, don't feel bad asking a question if others have asked it because the questions are always new to you. And I may, like I've said, get the same question every signing, but that just means it's a question I should already have a good answer to. Does that make sense? And so, on this one... Let me explain. My history with Asmodean is not the... I mean, I fall in the camp of the people who didn't even really care until I got online and everyone was talking about it. Does that make sense? Like, you know, I'm not naturally a really, really, really close reader, and I actually like it that way because then I can reread the series and always be like, "Oh yeah, I forgot this part. That one's great." And so, every time I got to that, "Oh yeah, some one killed him!" Which we'll find out eventually. ... But then I got online, and then I started talking to Wheel of Time fans. And then after our arguments about how to say Nynaeve's name, there was the whole Asmodean thing and "Who do you think did it?" And then I'm like, aaahhh, nah. And then I read all the theories and things. I didn't guess it. But I didn't want... you know, that wasn't what I was doing. When I read it, I'm like, "Oh! That theory is right!" 'Cause there's a theory for everyone. ... And I'd read all the theories, and I when I read it, I'm like, "Oh, that one was right! Obviously, it could be figured out because someone did it." That was my thought process. It was not, "Oh, I should have seen that myself."

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*