# [Interview #1006: TWOK Signing Report - HardcorePooka, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1006#1)

#### HardcorePooka

My great journey to see Brandon Sanderson started at about 1:00 in the afternoon... I arrived at the signing at about 2:00 and then met up with some fellow 17th Sharders (Shivertongue and his friends) and we hung out at the mall across the street from the Borders where the signing would occur. We got back to the Borders at about 5:30 or so and acquired our wristbands to assure our places in line. From there we commandeered an entire row of seats(not the front row... but we should have) and sat around talking with fellow fans of Brandon for the next hour and 45 minutes or so.

I got to explain the fixing of
*Elantris*
to someone. That was fun.

Brandon was late. From what I can tell this is pretty normal for him. The employees at the store said he hit traffic... I think he just didn't want to leave the restaurant where he had dinner because their food is quite awesome.

Brandon then did a reading from
*The Way of Kings*
in which he read the prelude. He also explained that the prelude is really a second prologue... and that the book doesn't really start until chapter 2. Also, it is entirely my fault that the reading did not get recorded. The mic I was using to record was a powered mic which I of course forgot to turn on until about halfway through the reading. Way to go me!

Then the Q&A portion of the night happened. I recorded all of this. The audio is available here...

Listed below are all the questions asked during the Q&A session. They are a little hard to hear on the recording so I wrote all of them down and you can follow along while listening.

#### Footnote

The audio is no longer available.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*