# [Interview #456: Louie b. Free Show - Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=456#3)

#### Louie Free

Thank you for coming on. Please tell us about yourself.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Well, I am a thirty-four year old guy who picked up a fantasy novel called
*The Eye of the World*
when I was fifteen, so about nineteen years ago, and fell in love with it. It was one of the books that made me decide that I wanted to become a writer. So I spent the next few years writing books, finished my first one when I was twenty-one, so after a few years, and really just decided I wanted to do it. Got a job working a graveyard shift at a hotel so I'd have time to write while I was putting myself through school, and wrote thirteen novels over the next eight years—about two a year or so, most of them at the graveyard shift. And eventually sold my sixth novel to TOR Books, which was my favorite publisher. It was the publisher of that original book that had gotten me wanting to become a writer,
*The Eye of the World*
, which was written by an author named Robert Jordan. He wrote a series called the Wheel of Time, which I followed through all of these years and part of again what made me into a writer, and I ended up at his same publisher.

Well, in 2007, he passed away, while working on the ending of his series. And like a lot of fans, I was devastated. And this was my hero. This was the person whose books I'd studied when trying to figure out how to become a writer. I didn't know him, I'd never met him, I'd seen at a convention once, but that was the most. About a month later, out of the blue, his wife called me on the phone—I didn't even know that I was being considered for this—and asked me to complete the series for him.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*