# [Interview #456: Louie b. Free Show - Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=456#6)

#### Louie Free

Hey, tell me about that...tell me, tell me. Brandon Sanderson, tell me about the first book you bought—the first Robert Jordan book.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Well, I walked in the door to this bookstore—I would go there once a week because I knew when new books came out, they came out on Tuesdays—and I would walk in, and there was the new release day. And these people knew books—they only carried science fiction and fantasy, which is what I loved. And they knew how to get the right books in the hands of a little teenage guy who was just devouring them. I discovered fantasy one year before.

And I remember walking in, and there featured displayed prominently was this big thick paperback of
*Eye of the World*
—I can just visualize it—and that's the first book in the Wheel of Time. And it was big, and it was thick. And I loved big thick books because I knew that there was immersion there. I didn't want something to be over quickly like a snap. I mean, that's what you get in a movie or something like that. In a book, I want to be immersed. I want to be able to dig my teeth in and really get to know people in the world. So I looked for the big ones. It wasn't necessarily an indication of quality, but I knew that if I found one I loved and it was big, I'd be able to spend a lot of time there. And this one was huge.

And I remember buying that book, and just really getting sucked in, like nothing I'd read before. I mean, the generation before me read Tolkien. I hadn't read Tolkien. I'd tried Tolkien when I was too young and it had been too hard for me. It had been years since I tried Tolkien, but I grew up on
*The Eye of the World*
. This was the fantasy epic of the Wheel of Time for my generation, but I later read Tolkien and loved it.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*