# [Interview #456: Louie b. Free Show - Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=456#8)

#### Louie Free

Folks, we're able to keep Brandon Sanderson for another segment and I'm delighted, Brandon. I want to thank you for accommodating us with some extra time.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Oh no, thank you, Louie. This has been a really great interview, so I wanted to stay.

#### Louie Free

Thank you, thank you. Thank you for what you were saying off-air, too. It really means the world to me.
*The Gathering Storm*
is the name of the book. You know, I'm looking at some of the early emails, and you've got obviously a ton of fans around the world. Tell me what's it like when you know that you've got people that are literally camping out to get an early copy of
*The Gathering Storm*
. I mean, that has just got to be incredible. What's that like for you?

#### Brandon Sanderson

It is. It's an honor, honestly. But, you know, the thing to keep in mind: they're not camping out for me. This isn't about me. This is about the Wheel of Time. This is about Robert Jordan's books. And really, what I'm doing on this book is I'm trying to be as invisible as possible. I don't want them to see Brandon Sanderson. If they see too much Brandon Sanderson, then I've failed. I want them to see the story and see the characters.

You know, I can't replace Robert Jordan. I've said that from the beginning. I'm not trying to imitate his voice. I don't think it would be right. I mean, I have flashes in my mind of stand-up comedians doing parodies, when I've thought about trying to imitate him. And it would come off as hokey, I think. But instead what I'm trying to do is to stay true to the series and the characters, and adapt my style to fit it. And so, the best emails I've gotten from people are people who've emailed me and say, 'You know what? When I started reading, I could tell. I could tell just slightly that it was different. But by the end of the first chapter, I was sucked in, and it didn't matter. I couldn't see it any more because you did the story right and you did the characters right.' And that's what I'm looking to see.

#### Tags

brandon on writing wot
,

fandom

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*