# [Interview #245: KOD Signing Report - SeanAlThor, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=245#1)

#### Sean AlThor

Robert Jordan signs
*Knife of Dreams*
at Border's Books & Music in Santa Cruz, California, October 29.

My friend Katie and I drove the six hours from Los Angeles to get a jump on the signings and I am so glad we did! We arrived an hour before the signing to find that we had just missed out on the 20 or so seats Border's provided. Over the next hour, the majority of the crowd arrived and since there was no structured line or crowd management, everyone just kinda milled around the store. I was really happy to see the number of high school age and younger kids there.

#### Robert Jordan

At 4pm sharp the event coordinator was sitting in Robert Jordan's seat helping a young fan (about 10 years old) "flap" his book to the right page. Mr. Jordan crept up behind her and peered over her shoulder. He smiled at the crowd who was watching his every move quietly so we didn't give him away. He continued to peer over the woman's shoulder trying to look upset and put out, but his (Mat like?) sly smile gave away the joke. Finally the woman noticed him and popped out of his seat looking embarrassed. The crowd erupted in laughter. She quickly announced Mr. Jordan and handed off the microphone as the crowd of about 125 strong greeted him with a very enthusiastic round of applause.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*