# [Interview #245: KOD Signing Report - SeanAlThor, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=245#5)

#### Sean AlThor

We got all four of our books signed then left. All in all it was a very satisfying and enjoyable experience, BUT, it's not over yet!

We decided since we were in the lovely city of Santa Cruz to walk around their downtown area and take in the sights. Katie and I were giddy, chatting about the signing when out of nowhere Katie says, "You're Harriet!" and stops dead. I look and sure enough Robert Jordan's wife Harriet is standing there looking surprised.

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

She affirmed that she was in fact Harriet. We quickly mentioned how we were just at the signing and she seemed to relax. Katie chatted Mrs. Jordan up and she seemed more than happy to stand there and talk with us. It was very gratifying and we found the woman delightful. Just before parting ways Katie said "We are just the hugest fans of your husband and from listening to him speak and reading articles it is obvious that he loves you very very much." Harriet seemed a little embarrassed and her cheeks got a little red, but then she answered in just the sweetest shy voice, "The feeling is mutual." Big old romantic softies that we both are, we were very moved by the sentiment and seriously, meeting Harriet was just the coolest and left the biggest impression on us of the day.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*