# [Interview #213, Entry #7]: Robert Jordan's Blog: YET ANOTHER, IT SEEMS](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=213#7)

#### Robert Jordan

For kcf, again, we have never met anyone who has the Talent of emulating the effects of a
*ta'veren*
over a small area.

I give my input on the design of the chapter icons whenever a new one seems needed, but Harriet actually decides where to place them, and I am happy to leave the job to her.

Yes, Ingtar was seen at the Darkfriend Social.

The Wheel creates
*ta'veren*
at need, making someone who is already alive one. You aren't born
*ta'veren*
. Can you imagine being around a
*ta'veren*
who is teething?

It would be possible for a Darkfriend or Forsaken to be made
*ta'veren*
, but it seems unlikely.
*Ta'veren*
are part of the Wheel's self-correcting mechanism. When the Pattern seems to be drifting too quickly, and especially if it is in the wrong direction, one or more
*ta'veren*
are created. I can't really see how making a Darkfriend or Forsaken
*ta'veren*
would help with correcting the drift of the Pattern.

*Ta'veren*
can oppose one another, when their conflict is what the Wheel "sees" as the necessary corrective. And, no,
*ta'veren*
is not Old Tongue for
*Deus ex machina*
. It came out of musings on luck, charismatic leaders, and the theory of the indispensable man.

Katerine escaped with the help of Darkfriends. Galina, who is much more closely watched by Wise Ones than Katerine was, would have little opportunity to use their help for an escape even if she wanted to, and she doesn't, not until she can get her hands on that rod. She'll put up with anything to get that.

Anyone who can channel, however weakly, can see the glow of
*saidar*
and feel someone channel. For
*sul'dam*
who have been
*sul'dam*
for a time, some begin to be able to see what might be called a ghostly image of the flows. Others convince themselves that this is, of course, only imagination and manage to give themselves a block.

Wow, you have a lot of questions. One more, and then I'm off to the next person.

Someone who sees
*ta'veren*
sees them as glowing. The more strongly
*ta'veren*
, the brighter the glow. This is a Talent, and is something that only someone who can channel can do. While she was stilled, Siuan could not see
*ta'veren*
, nor could she have if she had been burned out.

