# [Interview #814: Other Tidbits From Brandon Sanderson's SDCC Spotlight, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=814#6)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Brandon's book release plan for the next five years:

After
*A Memory of Light*
is finished, Brandon's next focus is finishing the next Stormlight Archive book "as soon as possible, hopefully by this time next year." The next book is already intricately plotted out, which is about the halfway point for Brandon, and the rest of the writing "could take as little as 6 to 8 months."

There are two books that Brandon finished before starting on the final Wheel of Time book but which won't come out until after
*A Memory of Light*
, as Brandon wanted to properly support their release, which just isn't possible while finishing The Wheel of Time.

The first is
*The Rithmatist*
, a middle grade coming out from Tor Books next year about Joel, a non-magic kid enrolled in a magic school (his mom's the cleaning lady there) who starts investigating a murder that happens at the school. The magic system is "chalkboard magic," which Brandon likened to playing
*Starcraft*
. The kids draw a chalk circle around themselves on the floor then scribble in things that try and chew through the other kids' own chalk circles. Fans of his Alcatraz series will find the same appeal from
*The Rithmatist*
, according to the author.

Next is
*Steelheart*
, a post-apocalyptic superhero book where people in our world can only obtain super powers if they're evil. The inspiration for the story occurred to Brandon when he got cut off by another driver one day. "I thought, if I was a supervillain this guy would just be...BOOM." Which got him thinking about a world where people could actually do that.

In the world of
*Steelheart*
, these people are considered "forces of nature" and eventually the most powerful form little fiefdoms. The protagonist is an 18 year old boy whose father was killed by
*Steelheart*
, one of the most powerful superpowered villains, who joins an assassination guild in hopes of taking Steelheart down.

After Stormlight 2, Brandon will probably go straight into the third Stormlight book, although he might take a short break and write the follow-up to
*The Alloy of Law*
. And after that? Brandon really wants to write a follow-up to
*Elantris*
, as 2015 marks the ten-year anniversary of the publication of the first book.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*