# [Interview #853: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: A MEMORY OF LIGHT Signing-by-Mail (SOLD OUT) + Updates, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=853#4)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Now for the biggest announcement today. As you know,
*A Memory of Light*
will be released in hardcover on January 8th, 2013. I will be touring to support its release, but they're still deciding whether the first release event will be in Provo or Charleston. As soon as it's announced, I will let you know.

I realize that not everyone can make it to one of my signings. It's unfair if you live in Germany but want a numbered copy. Therefore, I've started doing virtual booksignings with Weller Book Works (formerly known as Sam Weller's)—a wonderful independent bookseller in Salt Lake City that has been a supporter of my books since I was a nobody—alongside the standard signings I do there. Update: SOLD OUT, sorry! If you emailed and haven't heard back yet, you should still get a book. Don't worry.

I will be going in to Weller's sometime right before Christmas to sign, number, and personalize 700 copies of
*A Memory of Light*
. Weller's will then ship them out; they will try to time the shipping so the book arrives at your door on January 8th. However, they're not allowed to deliver before that date, so they can't cut things too close, and some books may arrive after the 8th. If that's the case, though, they'll try to keep the delay as short as possible. International orders will be shipped first, since those have the longest transit time. Due to the size of this book, Weller's will be shipping each book in a Priority Mail medium flat-rate box, which unfortunately drives the price up. But the book itself has a discount of 20% for preorders by December 7th, which helps offset that. Shipping will be $12.00 in-country, $34 to Mexico and Canada, and $49 to other international. If your order is shipped inside Utah, there will also be sales tax. (Note that Weller's cannot track packages internationally. They've tried.) I'm really very sorry that the shipping cost is so high, but books this big just won't fit into cheaper envelopes. On the plus side, the box can fit TWO books, so if you buy two to ship to the same address there is no increased shipping charge.

When you call Weller's, please be certain to tell them (even if they don't ask) specifically how you want the book personalized. If you don't tell them specifically, they will have it signed but not personalized. Simply telling them your name is not enough. You have to tell them "I want it personalized to John" (for example). If you don't want it personalized, tell them "Signature Only" just in case.

About the numbering: If you get a book from one of the two release events (Weller's or the BYU-or-Charleston midnight release), I'll number your copy. These numbers are less about being limited editions and more about getting a special add-on, an indication that you made it to one of the initial events. The numbers will trade off in blocks of 100, so books through Weller's will receive numbers 101—200, 301—400, 501—600, etc. Note that if the midnight release ends up in Charleston, I will definitely still sign books in Utah sometime during the tour, without numbering.

Details:
  
Weller Book Works
*A Memory of Light*
signing-by-mail (SOLD OUT!)
  
Order by phone or by email:
  
Phone: (801) 328-2586 or (800) 333-7269
  
Email: books@wellerbookworks.com
  
Preorder deadline: SOLD OUT!
  
Note: You may pay by credit card (on phone orders) or PayPal only.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*