# [Interview #283, Entry #1]: Robert Jordan's Blog: Update from Wilson](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=283#1)

#### Wilson Grooms

Wilson here:

I know. Not who you wanted to hear from. The Big Guy asked me to update you in his absence.

I just got off the phone with Harriet and RJ, as they were passing through the Atlanta airport en route to the Mayo Clinic. They fly into Minneapolis and will drive the 90 miles to the Mayo this afternoon. Harriet is taking on the driving duties. Love her like a sister, but don't get in her way. She drives by the dictum: lead, follow or get the hell out of the way. Upon arrival, they'll hunker down for the evening. RJ mentioned having "Take Out Taxi" deliver Szechwan for dinner. Their evening will consist of reading and rest from the trip. RJ will undergo another round of medical tests and consult with the doctors. On Saturday they'll return home. Thirty days from now, it'll be the same routine.

RJ is recovering still from the effects of the chemo. As an example, six weeks ago he gave me the green light to regrow my hair. I've pretty much returned to normal, though my coworkers would argue that, while his hair is very short and as fine as a newborn's. He did tell me today that I would be able to see his hair from a few feet away, a vast improvement.

Additionally, RJ is on a pharmaceutical regime that would bring lesser persons to their knees. I'm personally amazed at how well my brother-cousin is doing, but he is still weaker than he would like. That said, the record heat we've had this summer has really gotten to him. His office is a short walk from the back door of their home. Stepping from the air-conditioned house to the heat and then back into the air-conditioned office was taking its toll. As a result, the office computer is being relocated into the house. It will take a little time to make the transition and get the network up and running properly. I'm sure you'll hear from him shortly after that's completed.

We lost round one. The chemo didn't work and the strength hasn't returned as quickly as he'd hoped. Round two is underway, and as he's told you himself, he intends to win. This very day, he told me how fortunate he was. Facing what he's facing and he feels fortunate. Take something from that guys and allot time to be thankful for your own blessings. Do keep the prayers and well wishes coming. He still needs them. While you're at it, toss in a couple for yourselves.

Wilson
  
Brother-cousin, 4th of 3

