# [Interview #1116: Brandon Sanderson - /r/books AMA March 2015, Entry #33](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1116#33)

#### [zuriel45 (Reddit)](http://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/2ytg2h/im_novelist_brandon_sanderson_ama/cpcrc9u)

First off I want to thank you for all your works. They're each up there as some of the my top favorite books, from chracter to world building, and I immensely appreciate the work you've put into them.

I have far to many questions about the cosmere to put into one post (nor would I want to pester you with all of them), so instead I just wanted to ask if my theory for how FTL could be achieved with scadrial magic is possible.

Some preliminary questions.

1)Would it be possible to invest a metal such as bendalloy so that it's "active" and create a time bubble? 2)Would an invested object creating a bubble move about the bubble like Wayne does inside his? Or would the bubble move with the invested object? 3)Wayne implies that it takes a couple seconds between dropping a time bubble and creating a new one. Is this a biologically related limit, or magically related limit? 4)Would more powerful allomancy/investment increase the size of the bubble, or change the time differential?

My theory is that if someone created a large bubble that sped up time inside of it (so time outside seems slower) You would cross the bubble faster than light would cross the same difference outside of it. Of course the journey would take the same time inside as it would without the bubble which would mean the need for a generation ship. To compensate someone could then create a smaller pocket of slowed down time (cadmium) which would cancel the sped up time and create a normal time flow. This would allow living humans to experience the same flow of time as someone on scardial itself while the ship still travels are FTL speeds. If the bubbles traveled with the ship then there wouldn't be any additional strain the structure. If the bubbles couldn't travel with the ship but if the time it takes to create a new bubble could be overcome you could theoretically turn on/off the bubble maker at a very high frequency to allow the bubble to be re centered with the traveling ship.

So I'm curious if my theory is feasible? Also in case you decide to RAFO this one I had another quick one.

Is it possible to become a Stormlight/Breath savant, what would the effects of that be?

Regardless of the response I want to thank you for taking the time to do the AMA, love your books and am very excited for the new ones later this year! Also, sorry this question got a bit out of hand.

P.S. If you ever want someone with a physics degree to do some calculations I'm happy to be your physics monkey!

#### [Brandon Sanderson (Reddit)](http://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/2ytg2h/im_novelist_brandon_sanderson_ama/cpdf4xx)

You've got some serious RAFOS in there, I'm afraid, but let's see what I can answer.

First, I'd love to have your contact info through my website for running calculations. We've got some people, like Eric, who know their stuff--but having more physicists to help out is important when I start figuring things like red shift and what not.

As for the other questions, I'm digging out answers for you, where i can. Might take me a little longer, though.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*