# [Interview #637: Neth Space Interview: Brandon Sanderson, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=637#7)

#### Neth

For those readers who read Mistborn years ago (or even not at all), what do they need to know before reading
*The Alloy of Law*
? Do you think this book is a good introduction to the world of Scadrial?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I honestly don't think you need to remember that much of the original trilogy, or even need to have read it at all, to enjoy this book. Granted, I drop some bombs on you in the epilogue—the epilogue and near ending of this book are deeply tied to the original trilogy, but the actual story of this book other than those after-the-fact bombs is very self-contained. Allomancy and Feruchemy are reintroduced; readers get some quick explanation of that. I think you can pick this up without having to read or reread the whole trilogy.

#### Neth

High Imperial? And where was Hoid?

#### Brandon Sanderson

You will have to look. Hoid is in the book, though his name doesn't appear. But the things happening here during this interim are not of deep interest to Hoid like the things happening in the original trilogy, so he is playing a much smaller role here than he was in the original trilogy.

Also, High Imperial just cracks me up.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*