# [Interview #579: BookBanter Interview, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=579#4)

#### Alex C. Telander

It's been two years since our last interview. At that time, you'd just released
*Hero of Ages*
and
*The Way of Kings*
and Wheel of Time books were in their early stages. What would you say has changed most in your life in the last two years?

#### Brandon Sanderson

What has changed most in my life? Professionally? Because in the last two years I've had a child, which change has been quite a bit. I would say I'm more comfortable and relaxed with how things are now. 2007 and 2008 were pretty nerve-wracking years, and 2009 in particular, when I wasn't sure how people were going to respond to my work. And so I think I'm more comfortable now. The last two years have also been extremely busy, and so they kind of passed in a blur. Yeah, Harriet's smiling, because she was in that blur, too.

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

[laughs in background]

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, it kind of turns when I hand it off to her and then she has to work furiously, and then she hands it back and then I have to work furiously.

#### Alex C. Telander

And then, two years have passed.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, then two years have passed.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*