# [Interview #579: BookBanter Interview, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=579#5)

#### Alex C. Telander

*The Way of Kings*
is over a thousand pages and
*Towers of Midnight*
is over 850. The books were published within three months of each other. What's your key to getting this much writing done?

#### Brandon Sanderson

It's in part, cheating.
*The Way of Kings*
I already had a first draft of done before the Wheel of Time project was offered to me. There would have been no way to do them both in the same year if that hadn't been the case.

People don't quite understand a couple of things. Number one: that was a gift; I already had a first draft done. And I wrote it from scratch again, but it went very quickly because I had already done a first draft.

The other thing they don't understand is when you're a mid-lister like I was several years ago, when you turn in a book it takes several years for it to come out, because they're giving everyone slots and they're arranging it. And I would even usually work a year ahead, and then I'd turn it in, so it would often be three years until a book was published. An example of this is
*Warbreaker*
. It was released last year. I wrote it in 2006, that's when the first draft was written, and it came out almost exactly three years later.

When you're working on high profile books, they don't sit on them for three years. And so what happens is I wrote these books that I did beforehand, and then I started working on the Wheel of Time in 2007 and 2008, and I finished the book and then it came out immediately. And so it looks like I'm releasing twice as many books as I am, because books I wrote in 2006 and 2007 come out the same year as books I wrote in 2008 and 2009, which is what's happening here. Which is why there's not going to be any of my books next year because we've now caught up, no solo books.

I've been telling people I doubt we're going to have a Wheel of Time book next year, either. They've been spoiled, because if it takes us eighteen months to write a book, but we have a six-month buffer, we can get a book out and it looks like it's only been worked on for a year.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*