# [Interview #579: BookBanter Interview, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=579#6)

#### Alex C. Telander

So when you were kind of working on both books, did you kind of a have a set day for each book? Or how did you work through that?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I had deadlines and I had goals. I mean, I'm very goal driven. I say I want to have this done by this date. Which, you know, I give myself plenty of time, but I spend months working on them. Generally, I can only write on one book at a time. Keeping these things in your head is such that even a given book you break into small chunks. And people say, 'how do you juggle all these things?' Well, juggling all the viewpoints in a Wheel of Time book is monumental. And at that point, I pick one viewpoint group, generally. I say, okay we're going to do all the scenes with Perrin and Faile and those who are around them. And in that case, I will go and re-read a bunch of Robert Jordan's work with those characters, and I will do a few test runs to try and get myself in the characters, and then I'll write those characters. And then I'm done with those characters for that moment, and I'll go do it with someone else. And I'll do that with my own books, too. I'll get very into the mindsets of these characters, I'll write them. And then I drop it. It's like I download it all into my brain and it's gone. And then I wipe it and download something else. Does that make sense?

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*