# [Interview #579: BookBanter Interview, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=579#9)

#### Alex C. Telander

And you don't have any other projects you're working on, right?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I have lots of other projects, but that's because I'm an artist. And you know, most artistic types I know like this—we always have lots of things buzzing in our brains. One of the ways I stay fresh is in between books I usually take a break and I work on side projects. I don't always release them; in fact, I usually don't. These are things that I do just to experiment with my style, to try and learn things and teach myself things. And so I do. If people follow me on my Twitter feed, last month I worked on a bizarre book about a pizza delivery man who finds out he's a necromancer. This month I worked on a
*Mistborn*
novella that I'm wrapping up now. That was October. November I'll do a Nanovel, I'll do something. And then I do have—in December I will be revising a book called
*Scribbler*
, which was the last book I finished before Harriet's phone call, which is a young adult very fun alternate history steam punk novel. And Tor is interested in releasing that, and so I'm going to take a month and revise that for December. And so all of those things are buzzing around, but none of them are in a state where they could be released next year. They're all too far off for that.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*