# [Interview #725: Alloy of Law Signing Report - Loialson, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=725#3)

#### Loialson

Hey Brandon, I got a bunch of questions from the Wheel of Time Re-read.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Okay! Alright! So Wetlander and people.

#### LOIALSON

Yes...Are the impressive displays of power that Rand makes in
*Towers of Midnight*
(i.e., stopping the Trolloc army and having no concern over being able to leave the White Tower) a result of his integrated knowledge or his
*ta'veren*
nature?

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Umm...Both, though, one thing you have to keep in mind, is...Rand, as a result of power level...Robert Jordan was specifically not using him very often because his power had grown so powerful even by the end of
*Knife of Dreams*
. I mean, you look at
*Knife of Dreams*
—if you go reread the fight in
*Knife of Dreams*
he is laying waste to nearly as many Trollocs as he has when he does the battle at the temple—which is not actually called that in the books—that's the one with the Trollocs and things [referencing Rand's big single-handed fight in
*Towers of Midnight*
]. And so...yes, some of these things have changed, but he's really powerful now.

Now, the thing about in the White
*Tower*
is something different. [Brandon smiles]

#### Footnote

Someone needs to ask Brandon about that 'temple' thing.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*