# [Interview #514: JordanCon: Interview with Wilson Grooms by Richard Fife, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=514#6)

#### Richard Fife

Wow. I've heard that story a few times now, and it still gives me chills. So, on a lighter topic, tell me exactly how Asha'man pins are worn. (Note: I'm currently wearing mine with the sword on my left, the dragon on my right).

#### Wilson Grooms

I thought you were wearing them correctly, but from my recollection of our military stuff Jim would never put a blade toward the neck. That is because we learned how to handle blades safely. They are a weapon and a tool, but not something to be feared because you have to handle them, but you have to know how to handle them. A blade was never drawn unless you intended to do something with it, either working with it as a tool or to do someone harm. So the symbolism of putting the blade toward the throat, I think, would have been contrary to what he was like.

But it was never really discussed in the books. They were on the collars. I say go with what feels right. If the dragon closer to your heart feels right, then wear it closer to your heart. If the sword feels closer to your heart, then go that way. But, he never said, but I would point the blade away from the neck.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*