# [Interview #514: JordanCon: Interview with Wilson Grooms by Richard Fife, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=514#7)

#### Richard Fife

I hereby forbid you from using the letters R-A-F-O. Let's talk about Asmodean.

#### Wilson Grooms

OK, what about Asmodean?

#### Richard Fife

Who killed him?

#### Wilson Grooms

OK, I know, but not because I figured it out. It's because I flat out asked. I did, I just went up, and I'm just like you guys. I said, "I just can't figure it out, let me know." He said, "You could, if you just read it closer." I said, "No time, Bubba, who killed him?" And he went, "[censored]". And I went, "Yeah, makes sense." And by the way, I asked Maria later on if that was correct, and Maria confirmed that it was correct and told me why.

I understand that it was one of those plotlines that he always wanted to have tied off, and if people couldn't figure it out, it would be figured out for them. Around the dining room table, when we were first discussing what has got to be done and what not, that was one of the ones he wanted done. So yes, it will be there; you'll get your answer.

The reason it hasn't been there up to this point is because somebody figured it out. At a book signing, a fan said to him quietly, "This is who did it, and this is why." And he was right. And it wasn't a question with an exclamation point on it, and he said, "You got it. Spot on." And he reasoned that if one person could get it from the text, then anybody could get it from the text. And one of the great things about Bubba is that he always wanted people to think. He liked to tell you stories and he might want to give some benefit of his experience in the reading, but he was very, very interested in what you thought and that you were thinking. So, he didn't want to give that away until the very end.

