# [Interview #372: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Answers to Questions, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=372#2)

#### Brandon Sanderson

The other question that popped up several times is this one: Am I including the pages that Mr. Jordan wrote in that wordcount? The answer is yes and no. What I'm doing is writing through the book by viewpoint grouping. That means I start at the beginning, then write through to near the end with a certain set of characters. Then I begin again with a new set of characters. This helps me focus in on those characters so that I don't have to keep track of QUITE so many things at once.

When I reach a section that Mr. Jordan finished, I insert it, then keep going. So the 200k that I've "written" so far includes chunks that I didn't write. However, the unfinished portions also include large chunks of Mr. Jordan's writing that AREN'T yet included in the 200k. I'll include them when I write those characters and get to the parts he has finished. Does that make sense?

And now, since I finished another chapter on Saturday, we have an update to our list below!

*A Memory of Light*
Relative Length Chart: 8/25/08

*Alcatraz/Evil Librarians*
60,400
  
*New Spring*
121,815
  
*Elantris*
202,765
  
**—-
*A MEMORY OF LIGHT*
204k So Far!—-**
  
*The Final Empire*
214,752
  
*The Path of Daggers*
226,687
  
*Warbreaker*
236,301
  
*Winter's Heart*
238,789
  
*Hero of Ages*
244,201
  
*The Dragon Reborn*
251,392
  
*The Well of Ascension*
252,739
  
*The Great Hunt*
267,078
  
*Crossroads of Twilight*
271,632
  
*A Crown of Swords*
295,028
  
*The Eye of the World*
305,902
  
*Knife of Dreams*
315,163
  
*The Fires of Heaven*
354,109
  
*Lord of Chaos*
389,264
  
*The Shadow Rising*
393,823

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*