# [Interview #156: COT Signing Report - Matthew Julius, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=156#6)

#### Matthew Julius

Me, being a dork and not being able to come up with any questions that would not be a RAFO, just stood by and listened as my friend calmly chatted with RJ. My friend brought his copy of
*Legends*
(and four other books), and had me get it signed since I only had
*Crossroads of Twilight*
. I hadn't thought about it and asked my friend where he wanted it signed (he was planning on getting all the authors to sign it...).

#### Robert Jordan

RJ solved the problem by signing in his section only, suggesting that to sign at the front would invoke the ire of Robert Silverberg. A nice man, he said, just not the man you'd want to piss off. My friend also asked him what he enjoyed reading. RJ's response was \*mumble mumble\* (names escape me, sadly), and that he was currently in his fifth reread of \*mumble mumble\*'s series. My friend's unavailable for comment right now, so I'll add it later. RJ also got a little amused by my friend's copy of
*The Shadow Rising*
complete with library tags and stickers.

#### MATTHEW JULIUS

We didn't stick around after that, having completed all that we could've done, that is, we had no more books to have signed. All in all, we had a good time and RJ was very pleasant to talk with, and he seemed to be enjoying himself too. My only regret is that I did not bring all of my books; I could've gotten them all signed easily, with much time to spare.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*