# [Interview #847: Melbourne SupaNova 2012 - Q&A Podcast with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=847#7)

#### Phillip Carroll

Firstly, I want to applaud you for taking on the actual task, and also, one of the things you mentioned, I think it was on one of your blogs, that you have no intention of doing any spin-offs or anything like that, and I think that's really really great. But with the very recent runaway success of the
*Game of Thrones series*
, do you foresee something like Wheel of Time becoming a television series?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Here's how we stand: Universal bought the rights to the Wheel of Time books. This has been a couple of years back now. It wasn't an option; as far as I know, it was a full buy-out, which means they sunk a lot of money into it. They have the future of the Wheel of Time in cinema in their hands unless they decide not to do anything with it, which they very well could decide. I have, from the beginning, said that I feel a television show would be the best way to faithfully adapt the Wheel of Time, and I've told that to them many times. That said, I do think it is
*possible*
to do a good Wheel of Time film. I wouldn't have thought that it was possible to do a good Lord of the Rings film, but someone did it. So it is possible, and I think that is still what, they're intending. I am kind of hoping that the runaway success of the
*Game of Thrones*
will persuade them that perhaps that would be a better way to do the Wheel of Time. What I actually pitched to them was not doing one season per book, but trying to do things like, you know, rather than doing one movie per book, do a season of a television show and condense like three books into it, which is still going to be a lot of condensing, but it becomes reasonable to then do a series of the whole book series if you do it that way, and that's still what I think would be the easiest. It doesn't mean it would be the best. They certainly...you could have someone just knock it out of the park and do an awesome job with a Wheel of Time film series. Alright, who's next?

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*