# [Interview #618: West Jordan Signing Report - 17th Shard, Entry #25](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=618#25)

#### Question

Do any of you guys have plans, after your current works, to do graphic novels?

#### Peter Orullian

Graphic novels? I have actually been contacted by a couple of graphics guys as a result of that webisode series I was talking about earlier. Through work I actually know some of the companies that do that so the answer is yes.

#### Brandon Sanderson

There is always talk about doing Mistborn as a graphic novel and we never quite get it off the ground because every time, it would require enough work from me to make it happen that I could write another book and so I might as well write another book, if that makes sense. We keep kicking it around. We'll see.

#### Peter Orullian

I should add, though, real quick: what I wouldn't do is a retelling of another novel. I would go into the world to expand the world and so your experience with the novel is resonant, but not the same.

#### Brandon Sanderson

See, that's the problem with graphic novels. Do you just retell the book? If you do that, then people who've already read the book, they may be interested in a graphic novel, that would be fun, but it's not that compelling because you already know what's going to happen. That's the easy road. The hard road is write a completely new story but in that case, I would be the one wanting to write a completely new story, which would mean doing as much work as writing another book. And so that's the problem we've run into every time with graphic novels.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*