# [Interview #618: West Jordan Signing Report - 17th Shard, Entry #41](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=618#41)

#### Question

In the prologue in
*The Alloy of Law*
, it talks about how the guy actually spikes people to the wall. Is there going to be Hemalurgy involved?

#### Brandon Sanderson

That's a RAFO. Hey, RAFOs! I will say, in
*Alloy of Law*
time, Hemalurgy is not well-known and that's not been spread around, and Feruchemy as an art moved like Allomancy did in that you can have just one of the powers. And we decided... Chemings? What did we decide, Peter? Oh, Ferings. We decided Ferings. We couldn't decide bewteen the two of those. It's in the book somewhere. [
*Editor's note: Um, I don't think so.*
] But anyway, you can have one Allomantic and one Feruchemical. But not a lot of Mistborn and not a lot of full Feruchemists anymore.

#### Question

Do you explain how the Feruchemists came back, because at the end there were a lot of eunuchs and...

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, well, that's one of the reasons why Feruchemy has been split because it's very diluted now. The Terris people did survive because they made it. And so, the genetic code is there.

#### Questioner

And so, every once in a while, hereditarily, the gene will come up.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah. But that's why there aren't very many full-blooded Feruchemists anymore. A thousand years of the Lord Ruler trying to breed it out of the population followed by a cataclysm that destroyed most of the population of the world did them in, yeah.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*