# [Interview #151: COT Signing Report - David Funke, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=151#1)

#### Host

Our guest tonight has said that fantasy is a form of literature that remains very much alive because it touches something deep in people: their dreams.

Along the way to becoming the writer he is today, our guest graduated from The Citadel, earned a degree in physics, and became a decorated veteran of the Vietnam War. He began his writing career, first with historical novels, [inaudible] sequels to the
*Conan the Barbarian*
series, through ten volumes in the Wheel of Time series. The man who [inaudible] these works of fantasy is said to have first shown an interest in literature at the age of four, teaching himself to read, and then reading Mark Twain and another author with a fantastic imagination, Jules Verne. Tonight, our guest is here to talk about his latest volume in the Wheel of Time series, the tenth installment,
*Crossroads of Twilight.*
Please join me in welcoming Robert Jordan.

[THUNDEROUS APPLAUSE, INCLUDING HOOTS, WHISTLES, AND POSSIBLY CATCALLS]

#### Robert Jordan

You must be like me, here to see the Justin Timberlake/Britney Spears reunion.

#### Audience

[LAUGHS]

#### Robert Jordan

You people are all crazy!

#### Audience

[LAUGHS]

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*