# [Interview #203: Fine Print Interview, Entry #18](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=203#18)

#### Rick Kleffel

Now, how would you bring someone who has never read your books—and indeed might only have become aware of the high potential of the fantasy genre with the recent motion picture adaptations of
*The Lord of the Rings*
—to start the Wheel of Time? What would you tell them?

#### Robert Jordan

Well, if they liked The Lord of the Rings, I'd tell them
*The New York Times*
claims I'm the American heir to
*The Lord of the Rings*
—to Tolkien! The American heir to Tolkien; that's what Ed Rothstein said in
*The New York Times*
. But you would have to imagine Tolkien with no elves, no dwarves, no unicorns, no dragons, no
*hobbits*
—just people, written with an American sensibility instead of an English sensibility, and where Tolkien drew on the myths and legends of the English countryside and Norse myths and legends, I have drawn on the myths and legends of every country in the world based largely on the fact that we're a melting pot, and there are very few nations in the world that do not have people from the nation living here in the United States.

#### Rick Kleffel

That's great; the Wheel of Time is the melting pot fantasy!

#### Robert Jordan

Yes, you might put it that way.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*