# [Interview #203: Fine Print Interview, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=203#4)

#### Rick Kleffel

The Wheel of Time series is a huge achievement, running somewhere in the vicinity of eight thousand pages. What were your thoughts when you began this epic?

#### Robert Jordan

Well, I thought, 'I'm starting something rather large here, and I hope it works.' It was not, when I began, as large as it is now—that is, I didn't think it was going to be as many pages. I believed, at the start, that I could tell this story perhaps five volumes, maybe six...but I thought five. And I had worked very hard to talk my publisher into letting me do that. He was willing to accept it, but five volumes...that's unusual; you don't
*do*
that. It was a single volume, or a trilogy, was the acceptable thing. And I was also afraid that once I got into it that the earlier books would go out of print, because that happens. Hardcover goes out of print normally when the paperback comes out, and then after a few years the paperback goes out of print, and since I knew I was writing something that you had to start reading at the beginning—you must start this with
*The Eye of the World*
; you cannot begin with the new book, with this latest book—I was afraid in the beginning that
*The Eye of the World*
would be out of print by the time the last book came out. But I managed to luck out.
*The Eye of the World*
has been in print continuously in hardcover for thirteen years now.

#### Rick Kleffel

That in itself is certainly a huge achievement!

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*