# [Interview #1008: Big Shiny Robot Interview: Brandon Sanderson, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1008#4)

#### Dagobot

With so many superhero comics running for so long, did you ever run into problems with originality in writing the book?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Again,
*Steelheart*
is an action book. It deals less with the superhero tradition and more with the story of ordinary characters trying to take down Steelheart. Still, I am evoking some of those superhero concepts, so I did run into some of the issues you're talking about.

For example, I found that a lot of potential names for superheroes and super villains have been used a dozen times by DC or Marvel over the years, so coming up with original names was difficult. Finding original uses of powers was also very difficult for the same reason. I had to scratch into nooks and crannies to discover things I hadn't seen done extensively before.

I do enjoy the comic form, but—'outside of some of the indies—I find I don't often get complete storylines in the way that I would like to. One of the things I want to do with
*Steelheart*
is to create a complete story with a distinct beginning, middle, and end. I do hope that I've been able to clear some new paths and add something distinctive to the genre. At the end of the day, though, I was just trying to tell an awesome story.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*