# [Interview #1171: DragonCon 2016, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1171#5)

#### Question

(answering earlier question of "what you're working on right now)

#### Brandon Sanderson

So - I'm working on the third Stormlight book. (cheering) It is currently three hundred and thirty thousand words long, which, for comparison - the original Way of Kings was around three hundred thousand and Words of Radiance was about four hundred. And so... and it's only three quarters done. So I've prepared the publisher, and I'll have to get through this again... Maybe I'll be able to make the future books in the series shorter, but this one's gonna be a big one, which I know you guys are so sad about. I anticipate it'll be published about a year after I hit the hundred percent of the first draft, so if you watch that progress bar, right when it hits that hundred, you're looking at about a one year period. I've been doing really well, momentum's been really good lately, and so I'm expecting that to be October... But just watch as that goes, it'll slowly tick up, and it's not ticking up right now 'cause I'm actually doing the revisions for part three of the book, which I'm doing the revisions as I write the book this time to get my editor, who's bipolar... I give him the trick parts when he's manic, so he revises them (laughing) and that let's us get through them in the periods when he's not manic, and he's manic right now! So I'm going to send him a part and be like "okay, Moshe, time to work on this". You just have to learn how to work in business this way, when you've got an editor like Moshe.
Book's going really well, it'll have most likely Dalinar's flashback sequence, and I will be reading one of those at my reading tomorrow. (wild cheering) Which I like to read those, because they take place before book one starts and it's not a huge spoiler for people who haven't finished Words of Radiance or anything yet, because that takes place before the series, but it's also- they're very self-contained sequences, they read very well, my big worry is that I don't know what room I'm in tomorrow... (checks, gives information)

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*