# [Interview #62, Entry #12]: Balticon XXX - Bill Garrett](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=62#12)

#### Bill Garrett

A Reading from
*A Crown of Swords*

Warning: Minor Spoilers for
*A Crown of Swords*

#### Robert Jordan

Robert Jordan read part of a chapter from
*A Crown of Swords*
. I don't have an exact measure of the length, but I'd estimate it at about 1200 words given the duration and pace of his reading. It sounded like one of those sections in a chapter that covers scenes from different characters' points of view. The scene features Mat with a "here's where he is now" theme, sort of like the scene in
*Lord of Chaos*
where Mat dances with a tavern wench. The passage is fairly funny; during the reading, the audience erupted into laughter several times.

In the scene we find Mat at Queen Tylin's palace in Ebou Dar. Mat is turned off by the cloying opulence of his rooms. He's apparently been accorded status as a ranking diplomat from a friendly nation. He's also accorded some personal status with the Queen, we find out... Tylin pays him a visit and jumps all over him. Mat tries to fend her off (he's really scared by the prospect of a woman pursuing him) but to little avail; she paws him like an octopus and manages to relieve him of a few articles of restrictive clothing. Thom and Juilin save the day with a well-timed knock at the door to Mat's chambers.

Thom, Juilin, and Mat discuss how they're going to manage to keep Elayne and Nynaeve protected and out of trouble. They develop a list of demands to give to the two women. When Elayne and Nyaneve arrive, the men present their concerns... and the women agree, completely! Mat, Juilin, and Thom know that trouble's on the way.

