# [Interview #475, Entry #5]: TGS Signing Report - kcf](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=475#5)

#### Question

Did Graendal use compulsion on Ituralde when they met previously in
*Lord of Chaos*
? Is it still there?

#### Brandon Sanderson

MAFO.

#### [MARIA SIMONS](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/topic/46013-mafo-answers/)

RAFO.

#### kcf

This lead to quite a bit of discussion. Basically, Graendal pretty much uses compulsion on everyone she interacts with. He also asked if it had been revealed that King Alsalam's letters were revealed to be fake. I went into our discussion here and Dom's interpretation in particular. Brandon seemed to like it.

#### Brandon Sanderson

He also said that if Ituralde was compelled, that it's still there—Rand's
*ta’veren*
[nature] does not have the power to break compulsion. And he said that it's certain that Ituralde was under the influence of Graendal.

#### kcf

My interpretation: He was compelled. It's still there, but since Alsalam is dead, it most likely doesn't matter anymore.

#### Footnote

Dom's theory: "Graendal Compelled Ituralde playing on his loyalty to his friend Alsalam, only increasing it to the point he would obey any of his orders without question, even if he rationally knew the orders made less and less sense. This is why he jumped to obey the order to go after the Seanchan even if he’s known all along this was crazy and would end with his own destruction and that of Arad Doman. To the very end, he stuck to his loyalty no matter what. Rand bypassed this because he convinced Ituralde that Alsalam was either braindead or dead, so the Compulsion remained, but it’s stopped being effective as Ituralde believed the man he had to obey was dead."

