# [Interview #261, Entry #10]: Robert Jordan's Blog: A TOUCH OF THIS AND THAT BEFORE THE MAYO](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=261#10)

#### Robert Jordan

I am taking a great many books with me to Mayo. There is a B&N not far from our hotel, but on the evidence, I, at least, may not feel up to much in the way of book shopping. So I'll finally get around to reading Erikson, and I'll have a tall stack of mysteries and thrillers, many of them older books by John Dickson Carr and Carter Dickson (the same fellow, for those who don't know; the master of the sealed room murder). Mainly I'll be setting myself up to laugh as much as possible, though, so I have a large number of Terry Pratchett novels, plus Donald Westlake (with apologies to Terry, the funniest man currently writing in the English language), P.G. Wodehouse and Tom Sharpe, an Englishman now deceased, I believe, but with a sense of humor so skewed and a world-view so outre that Carl Hiassen seems flat and ordinary by comparison. And I like Hiassen a lot. A number of his books are in that carton already winging its way to our hotel in Rochester.

Since we can't read all the time, and no one really wants to watch television much more than they absolutely must, we have also sent up a Scrabble set, a backgammon board, a go board (though we will play go-moku, the simple version for teaching children) and a set of Apples to Apples, a game that Mike Ford and Elise Matthesen introduced us to.

#### FOOTNOTE—TEREZ

Maria informed me that RJ loved Erikson, was very impressed by him. She gave me (along with a few hundred other fans) a tour of RJ's office in 2011, and I observed Erikson on RJ's famed bookshelves, so of course I asked (I also spotted Goodkind); I don't believe RJ commented on his impressions anywhere publicly, at least not that was reported (we all know what he thinks of Goodkind). Apparently a lot of fans recommended the Malazan books to RJ.

