# [Interview #870: Brandon Sanderson: "I was absolutely stunned" when asked to finish The Wheel of Time, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=870#3)

#### Ed Huyck

When did you first start reading The Wheel of Time, and what were your initial impressions of the stories and the writing?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I still remember the first time I saw
*The Eye of the World*
on bookshelves, at age 15. I can almost feel that moment, standing and holding the book in my hands. I think the cover of
*Eye*
is the best [longtime series cover artist] Darryl Sweet has ever done—one of the best in fantasy. I loved the cover. The feel of the troop marching along, Lan and Moiraine proud and face forward. The cover screamed epic. I bought the book and loved it.

I still think
*Eye*
is one of the greatest fantasy books ever written. It signifies an era, the culmination of the epic quest genre which had been brewing since Tolkien initiated it in the '60s. The Wheel of Time dominated my reading during the '90s, influencing heavily my first few attempts at my own fantasy novels. I think it did that to pretty much all of us; even many of the most literarily snobbish of fantasy readers were youths when I was, and read
*The Eye of the World*
when I did.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*