# [Interview #144, Entry #11]: Elf Fantasy Fair - Aan'allein](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=144#11)

#### Question

A question about a WoT movie.

#### Robert Jordan

A Japanese company contacted me about doing an animated movie. I told them no, because they wanted to do a movie based on two or three books, and I said, "no, I won't do that".

#### Aan'allein

Then he talked about NBC acquiring an option about doing a miniseries based on the first book and options to buy options on the other books, and that there was quite some progress made by the people involved and then, "those people promptly left NBC," and NBC has let the option lapse.

#### Robert Jordan

It's a chancey thing. I would not support anyone doing a feature film of, say,
*The Eye of the World*
. I do not think it could be compressed into three hours. Certainly not into two. That would make it incomprehensible. But... [end of this side of the tape] ... the screenwriter makes further changes, because, although it's a collaborative effort, if the director says I don't like this, do it some other way, do it this way, and the screenwriter does that. And if the screenwriter doesn't do that, they'll get another screenwriter. And then the actor says, "I don't believe this character would say this." And the actress says I don't want to do that, see, I want to do it this way, so they change the dialogue, and they change the scene. And the director, again, comes up and says, "I think it should be done in this fashion," and he shapes it.

#### Question

Which actors and actresses would you cast if a movie were made, and you had that power?

#### Robert Jordan

That power is never given to a writer of a book, believe me. I know that there are websites, more than one, that have sections or they have posts that this actor or that actress for this role or that role. I don't think I've ever really thought about it. To me a movie is something that would be nice if it happened. A miniseries...if Thom should be Sean Connery or Patrick Stewart. I'm sorry, I simply have never thought about that.

