# [Interview #702, Entry #11](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=702#11)

#### Question

Question for all three of you guys. I know there’s a lack of artwork to be able to put as [desktop] backgrounds— I know Way of Kings has some really neat ones, but like I love the artwork on yours... I know a lot of the stuff you’ve done with Mistborn, with Way of Kings symbols, I’d love to have good hi-res stuff, so if you guys ever have time, put something like that on your websites because—

#### Isaac Stewart

I’ve actually got that. I can totally put that up [online], yeah.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

We keep meaning to, for the people who bought the ebooks. In the ebooks you can’t see the interior art really well; we’re going to put up hi-res versions of it. It is planned, but we’ve just got so much stuff to do. (laughter) And I of course don’t own the rights to Michael Whelan’s artwork, so we can’t do much with that. But we can put up Isaac’s artwork.

#### QUESTION

One thing I want to have is, after the Warbreaker annotations finish, next week is the last one, is to start putting up chapters of Mythwalker—

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Oh, yeah... (groans) that book is bad.

#### QUESTION

But what I’d want... is like art annotations. Like for each of the Shallan things and then, Isaac’s stuff, have Isaac write annotations for his art.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

That would be cool! The hi-res thing, and then that, that would be way cool. We also should start putting up some of the RPG art. I think they said we could do that so we might have to start putting up some of that. You know, drive people to look at the RPG.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*