# [Interview #702, Entry #30](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=702#30)

#### Question

Isaac, how closely do you work with someone like Brandon when you make the maps?

#### ISAAC STEWART

Pretty closely. Brandon has a lot of say of what’s on there, because of course it’s his world. So I defer to him or Peter in everything as far as the maps come out.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, but he adds a lot himself. He’s really good, so we give him free reign. My favorite thing that he did in Way of Kings, there’s actually a map that is of the warcamps, the ten warcamps if you look at that one. And it’s actually done in the style as if a famous artist came and toured them and then went home and did an idealized representation of them, and so you can read, you know “done by the artist blah blah blah”. But the fun thing, Isaac kind of just did this, is yeah, I figured since he’s probably got this big ego he’s going to name stuff after himself, so there’s a river that’s named after the artist. That’s not really, the artist just put it in his artwork as being named after him and you just have to notice this. You have to look and say, “by the artist such-and-such” and then at the bottom in the description is “and that goes past the mighty river...” what’s his name? Vandonas, yes. Stuff like that where he’s just naming stuff after himself. Yeah, Isaac gets a lot of free reign to do things like that because all the art, particularly from Way of Kings we wanted to be in-world and so the different artists doing them have different personalities and different goals. One is, you know, an official survey and another is an idealized representation, and everything in between. So you have to wear a bunch of different hats like I do when I write a book. He was becoming different artists.

#### ISAAC STEWART

It’s also fun too because Brandon will say things like “eh... there’s a bunch of cities over here. Why don’t you name them and I’ll see if they fit.” So there’s some cities on the Way of Kings map I wrote down and he let them stay there. Who knows if people will actually go there.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*