# [Interview #702, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=702#7)

#### Question

So in the Way of Kings you had a whole bunch of chapters with different characters. How are you planning on tying these chapters that you didn’t really go into depth with, in the next [book]?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Oh, the interludes?

#### QUESTION

Yeah.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

The whole purpose of the interludes is when I sat down to write this book, I thought: Okay. I want to get across the scope of this world and how big and immense this world is, and how big and immense just all of the different political structures and all of these things are. And looking at what other authors have done, namely Robert Jordan and George R. R. Martin recently as a way to do that, they add new characters to show all this. But then that seems to kind of snowball on them, and by the middle books, there are so many characters that keeping track of them becomes a challenge, which may be the biggest challenge in those books. So when I sat down to write Way of Kings, I said, I want to do that, but I’m going to do that with throwaway characters. Meaning, all of the characters in the interludes are not necessarily characters you will ever see again. You can read the interludes as if they were short stories set in the world in between the main stories going on. Everything in those is important, but those characters you don’t need to worry about remembering who they are because you may not ever see from them again. They may occasionally show up for things like this and if you love keeping track of all these characters— but you won’t have to, in book two try and remember who those two ardents who were working with the spren were, or things like that. That’s not generally going to be that important. I will usually do one interlude with a more major character, though, that I’m introducing like Szeth, in each section. Szeth, the Assassin in White. But most of those, don’t worry about those. The whole point of those is that you can read them and and enjoy that chapter and then jump to something else.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*