# [Interview #522: Interview With Harriet McDougal by Luckers, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=522#3)

#### Luckers

Could you explain for the fans the sort of things you did for the books in your role as editor? How much has that changed or expanded since Jim's passing?

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

By the last of the Wheel of Time books, my role was primarily that of wife: keeping him fed and cared for—because after 20 plus years I had taught him everything I knew about storytelling and prose, and he had really become the wonderful writer that he was.

Working with Brandon is wonderful, because he is a grand human being as well as a very good writer. My role has expanded a lot—Brandon was amused that I made a cut in
*The Eye of the World*
that was exactly the kind of cut I made in
*The Gathering Storm*
—and I know these characters very well. They are, after all, a lot like my grandchildren.

Maria Simons, who has worked with Jim and me for fifteen years, is absolutely indispensable in the creation of these last books. Her memory is much better than mine—and she can often say what chapter of what book includes a particular scene. I cannot. She also has a tremendous memory for the minutiae of how the Power works, and lots of other stuff. And with Maria, Alan Romanczuk is also indispensable. He is a military veteran, which helps a lot with military stuff Brandon is not as familiar with as Jim was, and in general with all the other stuff.

I am now a member of Team Jordan, as far as the editing goes.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*