# [Interview #643: Elf Fantasy Fair Interview with Robert Jordan - Kurafire, Entry #13](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=643#13)

#### Kurafire

How much do you have to do with the Glossary of each book? Do you write it yourself, supervise it or just don’t have anything to do with it?

#### Robert Jordan

I write it myself, yes. Of course, there are some difficulties when I do. I ask my editor and my assistant, both of who get the manuscript to read, simultaneously. I tell them: "Give me a list, what do you think should be in the glossary? What really
*needs*
to be in the glossary?" And I take a look at old glossaries, to see if there are things in the old glossaries that should be in the new glossary, and I’ll try to put together something, add in and take out terms, these sort of things. And add in terms that
*they*
think should be in the new glossary. They usually come up with a lot of the same things, apart of a few different ones. And there is also the difficulty of how much time is available, with the last four books, last five books I guess. And that is that for each of the last five books—I don’t do the glossary until I finish the book—each of the last five books, there’s been two months from me finishing the book, to the book being in the stores. It’s been, in some of these cases, a
*week*
from me finishing the book to the second pass [..] and that means there is hardly no time at all, to write the glossary.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*