# [Interview #643: Elf Fantasy Fair Interview with Robert Jordan - Kurafire, Entry #14](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=643#14)

#### Kurafire

What do you think of Fairs such as the Elf Fantasy Fair here? Should more be held, to satisfy the needs of the ever-growing Fantasy-public?

#### Robert Jordan

I think so, of course. In the United States, there are many things like this, conventions as they’re called. Every weekend in the US, there’s at least
*one*
, often three or four, sometimes five or six, conventions in different parts of the country, every single weekend of the year. Those conventions can be small, where there are three or four hundred fans, five hundred fans, who have gotten together for a three day weekend. They start gathering at Friday afternoon and take off to go back to their jobs and work on Sunday afternoon. And mainly when people that have gotten together at a small convention like that, they will have gotten together maybe ten authors. Maybe nobody’s famous at a small convention like that, the authors aren’t famous. And some painters, professional painters, maybe to some average they hold an art-show, [..] judges competition, costumes, parties at night, singing of songs. And then there are the big conventions that maybe two thousand or three thousand, in some cases
*five*
thousand. And instead of ten writers they have thirty or forty or fifty writers. And almost certainly at a convention like that there’ll be someone well-known, famous, and illustrator and all the rest of it. I think that there are such conventions around Europe, I know, but yes, of course I think there should be more.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*