# [Interview #643: Elf Fantasy Fair Interview with Robert Jordan - Kurafire, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=643#7)

#### Kurafire

What did you think of the Wheel of Time game, and would you like to see more of them? If so, First-Person-Shooter type again, or something completely different? Something you would like to play yourself, perhaps?

#### Robert Jordan

I thought it was a good game. I have to admit I have not
*played it*
. I have
*seen*
it. I think it is visually beautiful. I have talked to people—friends, and fans—who are both gamers and fans to the books, and
*they*
seemed to think it was a very good game, so I trust their judgment more on that than I trust my own. I would like to see more games, yes, and, I would like to see different types of games. I think that this type of game is fine, I would have no objection to another game of this type, certainly not, but I would also like to see it expanded into other types. I‘m not sure how workable that is. I have a tendency to speak full of ignorance in this area—I wouldn't know. There were things that I asked them to do, when Legend was beginning to do the game, and I didn’t know that the technology did not
*exist*
to do what I was asking them to do, and in fact, the last time I talked to anybody from Legend/GTI, they had been at that point hired to
*rewrite*
the Unreal Engine itself, in order to make the Unreal Engine capable of doing some things that I had asked them to do in the game, that they couldn't do.

#### Kurafire

You’ve seen the level design and the detail in each level from the game—do you like it, compared to the amount of detail you put in the environments in your books?

#### Robert Jordan

Yes and no. Yes, it is wonderful realism for in the game. But, compared to the books, I wouldn't be fully satisfied with anything other than photo-realism. Not for 100% at least.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*