# [Interview #419, Entry #10]: Dave Brendon's Fantasy & SciFi Weblog - An Interview with Brandon Sanderson](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=419#10)

#### Dave Brendon

Not only are you finishing
*A Memory of Light*
, you’re also writing your own work; how on earth to you balance and juggle everything? I s’pose it helps to be a full-time writer. :-) and what is your day like while working on
*A Memory of Light*
? Do you work according to a schedule? Are there enough hours in the day? :-)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Let me combine the answers for these two questions. You may not be surprised to hear that I have many more ideas for books than I have time to work on them. There are several first drafts or partial drafts of novels that I’ve written that need serious revision before they ever see the light of day, but I have to prioritize according to the urgency of the project and the deadlines I’m working under. Part two of
*A Memory of Light*
(the working title is
*Shifting Winds*
, but this will ultimately change) will be getting the largest share of my attention during the next year. I also have to finish the fourth
*Alcatraz*
book in the next few months–Scholastic will probably start breathing down my neck around July or August, but my goal is to write it when I have a rough draft done for
*Shifting Winds*
. I often work on two books at once–writing new material for one book and editing another. Writing and editing take different types of attention, and I can usually only write new material for four to six hours a day, but I can revise all day long–maybe this is the difference between mental heavy lifting and mental long-distance running. I recently hired an assistant to handle a lot of the non-writing tasks associated with being self-employed; this should free up another couple hours each day during which I can work on revising
*The Way of Kings*
as I mentioned above. I generally put in an eight-hour workday, then call it quits if other things are happening. From 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. is family time, and then if nothing pressing is going on I head back to work after dinner and after my son is in bed. It works for me–most of the time, the fifty or sixty hours a week I spend writing are quite fun. As my wife says, writing is my job and my hobby. I’d generally rather be working on one of my books than sitting in front of the television.

