# [Interview #419: Dave Brendon's Fantasy & SciFi Weblog - An Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=419#3)

#### Dave Brendon

You have amassed a well-loved body of work, attaching your name to epic fantasy even before being approached to finish
*A Memory of Light*
; will you please tell us about your work, and why a reader who has never read your work should buy and read a copy of
*Elantris*
, the Mistborn series or
*Warbreaker*
?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I love epic fantasy, but I’m of the generation who grew up reading Robert Jordan and Tad Williams and are now trying to say, what else can we do with the genre? I want to write books that feel like the great epic fantasies of the past that you’ve read, but don’t use the same, familiar stories. In Mistborn, for example, the idea was to turn the standard fantasy story on its head–what if the prophesied hero failed and the Dark Lord took over and has ruled the known world for the last thousand years? My books are also known for their spectacular, interesting magic systems that are very rule based and almost a science unto themselves. But of course none of that matters without characters whose motivations you can understand and who you can care about as a reader. In
*Elantris*
I have three very different main viewpoint characters, and readers are fairly evenly divided on who’s their favorite–in writing as in anything else, it’s impossible to please everyone all the time, but I’m happy that my books have shown so many different people a character they can relate to and root for.

Between writing Mistborn 2 and Mistborn 3, I wanted to try something new, and my series of humorous middle-grade novels beginning with
*Alcatraz Versus the Evil Librarians*
was the result. I love epic fantasy, and don’t intend to ever stop writing it. However, sometimes we all need a diversion toward something more lighthearted. If you want to get a taste of what my writing is like, because
*Alcatraz*
is so different from my other books I recommend that unless you’re between the ages of ten and thirteen you start with the first Mistborn book—or
*Elantris*
or
*Warbreaker*
. Mistborn is a good entry point for people who like trilogies and series (and the writing is better in Mistborn than in
*Elantris*
; I can see how much I have improved over the years). The other two are good entry points for people who prefer standalones–and
*Warbreaker*
is available for free on my website (as well as coming out in hardcover in North America from Tor next month), so it may be the most convenient starting point of all.

