# [Interview #419: Dave Brendon's Fantasy & SciFi Weblog - An Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=419#8)

#### Dave Brendon

How has finishing (and it’s not completely done yet, guys and girls)
*A Memory of Light*
changed your life? Are you still the same Brandon Sanderson you were before
*A Memory of Light*
?

#### Brandon Sanderson

It’s far from completely done! The first part of the three,
*The Gathering Storm*
, is turned in and in production, and I’m only about halfway through the second part’s rough draft. There’s a lot of writing left to go. But working on the Wheel of Time has forced me to grow immensely as a writer. Back when I sold
*Elantris*
to Tor, they were interested in following that with the book I was working on at the time, called
*The Way of Kings*
. But I felt my career and writing skills weren’t yet in the right place to pull off the ten-volume epic fantasy series that I wanted that book to lead into, so I wrote the Mistborn trilogy instead. Now, after working on the Wheel of Time for over a year, I finally feel ready to dive in and do a revision of
*The Way of Kings*
. If I can effectively use all I’ve learned, I might be able to make the book become what I want it to be.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*