# Interview #155: COT Signing Report - Robert Ruckman

- Date: 2003-01-13

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Santa Cruz, CA

- Reporter: Robert Ruckman

- Links

-- [Dragonmount](http://web.archive.org/web/20031010034904/www.dragonmount.com/Interviews/2003-01-13.aspx)


## Entry #1

#### Robert Ruckman

Here is some news that I picked up from the Jan. 13th Santa Cruz signing. I didn't have a recording device so I am paraphrasing what he said. On a side-note the entire interview was taped for public access TV. [Editor's Note: Very cool. If anybody has that on tape, please send it to us and we'll get permission to stream it online.]

They had fliers which stated that it was the publisher who set the rules for the signing, the book totals, hardcover etc.... The flier stated that throughout this tour he will be signing two per person, hardcover only and will not personalize them.

#### Tags

fandom

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

Books and other news: He stated that there will be three more supplemental short stories to go along with the series. One of course is a rehash of
*New Spring*
, which he plans to expand it to around 70,000 words. He did not mention what the other two would be.

#### Tags

new spring
,

prequels

## Entry #3

#### Robert Jordan

Questions: He again as in the other signing took around 25 minutes for questions after giving a brief expose on the correct pronunciation of various names and places. A note to female fans: He specifically stopped taking questions for a minute to encourage them to participate in the forum. When asked the age-old question about how long until the next book he quipped that it would be released very shortly after he had finished writing it, and that he could not help it if we were greedy. Another question he was about which character he was most like, and he answered that while his wife thinks he is Loial "in toto" he said that Lan is the character who has the traits he aspires for, and Perrin is the most like him, although he at times acted a lot like Mat as a young man. Other questions were much the same as the other signings and did not shed a great deal of light on anything new.

#### Tags

rj on writing
,

harriet
,

favorites


---

