# Interview #112: Brisbane Signing Report - Joel Gilmore

- Date: 1999-09-21

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Brisbane, QLD

- Reporter: Joel Gilmore

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/70059f37eece008a)


## Entry #1

#### Joel Gilmore

Ok, I went to see RJ again yesterday, and I was able to ask a couple more things.

#### Robert Jordan

Firstly, Robert Jordan says the next book should (yeah, right) be finished May 2000, and published two months after that!!! So not long to go!

#### Tags

winter's heart

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

I got an answer to the Rahvin/balefire/
*Tel'aran'rhiod*
question—when someone is balefired, the constructs they make in
*Tel'aran'rhiod*
do not disappear, but instead fade away slowly over time. There are lots of weird effects associated with
*Tel'aran'rhiod*
and balefire, such as the way the world flickers after balefire used. I asked him just generally about it, and then he jumped straight in, gave the answer, then used the Rand and the fish example.

#### Tags

balefire
,

tel'aran'rhiod
,

rand
,

rahvin
,

the fires of heaven

## Entry #3

#### Joel Gilmore

I also got him to pronounce the names of the Forsaken (well, some of them) onto tape for me. He only got a few, but get this. I said "Could you recite the names of some of the Forsaken?"

#### Robert Jordan

He said "Sure, Ishamael, Rahvin, Semirhage, who else? Moridin..."

#### JOEL GILMORE

Now, it could just be he was listing evil people, or it could be that he was giving me a subtle clue. We can't prove it either way, but it's more food for thought :)

#### Tags

forsaken

## Entry #4

#### Robert Jordan

Ogier is pronounced OH-gee-ehr more or less, with the OH as in "so" and the gee not too much.

#### Tags

ogier
,

pronunciation

## Entry #5

#### Joel Gilmore

I'm going to post the transcript as soon as I've done it (won't be till next week). I don't think it would be right to post any of his voice, although maybe just a couple of the Forsaken names would be okay?

Any suggestions? (post=on web page :0)

Hmmm, I think that's all. Oh, and I got a number of really cool posters. One side has the cover of
*The Path of Daggers*
(full spread), the other has all the book covers and the WoT logo. Very cool.

Cheers, Joel

## Entry #6

#### Robert Jordan

Oh, and one more thing: The Forsaken are reborn pretty much straight away when they die. "Not right on the heels, but close." That should make things interesting :)

Joel.

#### Footnote

Apparently Joel was talking about transmigration rather than rebirth (not that the official terminology is so clear), but even that assumption has to be called into question because of the delay with Aginor and Balthamel. Clearly they were just 'waking up' at the beginning of
*Lord of Chaos*
, and at that point they had been dead for some time. We do know from the
[TOR Questions of the Week](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=4#3)
that the Dark One has to grab the soul at the time of death, or shortly thereafter, but it may be that he can hold onto the soul for a while until a 'suitable body' is found.

#### Tags

forsaken
,

transmigration
,

rebirth


---

