# Interview #1039: Steelheart Signing Report - otomo

- Date: 2013-10-11

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: San Francisco, CA

- Reporter: otomo

- Links

-- [17th Shard (Report)](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/4293-mountainview-signing/)


## Entry #1

#### Brandon Sanderson

Two questions were "is there going to be any more Alcatraz" (one must have come late). He did say something interesting about that in that he was going to write it on spec and would likely post it up for free until he found a publisher for it once that was done.

#### Tags

alcatraz

## Entry #2

#### Brandon Sanderson

He was asked how many contracts he's had and has, and started to talk about the story where he had a contract for Dragonsteel and another book, which became Rithmatist. He said the first book of Dragonsteel (can't recall the name off the top of my head though I know it and too lazy to look it up at this hour) didn't turn out well, and that he wasn't ready to write that series, which ties in all of his universes as a prequel. And said he'd be avoiding more series where you have to really have read everything to get it until further down the line. Confirmed that the next several books are going to be Stormlight related, along with the in between Wax and Wayne books, Steelheart books and Rithmatist.

#### Footnote

The book in question is
*The Liar of Partinel*

## Entry #3

#### Brandon Sanderson

Someone asked a really good question about inspiration of Sazed's crisis of faith and religion. Brandon really opened up nicely here saying that he does a lot of research so that he can tap into how people really feel about their religions, and therefore not just argue his characters' religions from a token perspective, but hold something that feels a little more real (which he definitely succeeded with in Sazed). He said he often hits up forums for different religious beliefs and surfs there, because people tend to be very honest and passionate on forums, which gives him a nice basis to write from.

#### Tags

sazed
,

brandon's influences

## Entry #4

#### Brandon Sanderson

I asked to confirm whether after Sazed's ascension if there were any more atium or malatium Mistings. He said "there are no more, in that way..." and I said "In that way, huh?" and he gave me an ominous look.

#### Tags

atium
,

allomancy


---

