# Interview #107: Melbourne Film Festival - Raf Kaplan

- Date: 1999-08-27

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Melbourne, VIC

- Reporter: Raf Kaplan

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/39e31d425e728846)


## Entry #1

#### Raf Kaplan

Anyway, I can't add much, but I'll add what I can. I attended the 'spotlight on Robert Jordan' interview and book signing, and then the reading (from
*The Path of Daggers*
and
*The Dragon Reborn*
) and the second book signing afterwards, but I missed the third session RJ was at.

#### Robert Jordan

Firstly, RJ said three more books "at least" and that he'd try to do it in three if he could, but he couldn't promise it would be only three. And he said he thought it would take "at least five years".

I won't repeat the stuff about sources Mark mentioned, although it took up most of RJ's responses to questions (and indeed, the interview) at the 'Spotlight' session.

#### Tags

how many more books?

## Entry #2

#### Question

Someone asked him about the Creator.

#### Robert Jordan

He gave the distinct impression that he wouldn't even contemplate having the Creator step in, nor is there any real Creator worship, because there is no need, the effects of the Creator are all around the citizens of Randland. I believe he's said that much previously. He quoted Terry Pratchett (from Mort, I think) regarding the way belief works.

#### Tags

creator
,

rj on reading
,

religion

## Entry #3

#### Robert Jordan

Someone asked if the Dragon is always male, and he told them to Read And Find Out.

#### Tags

dragon soul
,

rand
,

lews therin
,

gender

## Entry #4

#### Raf Kaplan

I personally didn't think (idiot me) to ask any questions regarding specific events. But at the first signing I was in a hurry, and at the second one me and a friend held up the line for a few minutes because RJ talked to us in answer to my friend's question about pronunciation and names and I joined in, and we had a fun chat about how the WoT was meant to be read out loud until RJ realised how long the line was and quickly signed our books and let us go. Giving me no chance to ask extra questions.

And I couldn't even hang around, because I had to go fairly soon anyway.

--

Raf Kaplan


---

