# Interview #164: COT Signing Report - Jonathan Gan

- Date: 2003-01-17

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Waterford, CT

- Reporter: Jonathan Gan

- Links

-- [Dragonmount](http://web.archive.org/web/20030406011555/www.dragonmount.com/Interviews/2003-01-17.aspx)


## Entry #1

#### Jonathan Gan

I was about tenth in line, I arrived VERY early, and passed the time playing the RPG. During this time, the manager of the Waldenbooks came out and told us that
*Crossroads of Twilight*
had just become #1 on the best sellers list, to which we all applauded. Being so close to the front of the line, I did hear what was said about the next book (which I believe he says about every book :) 'I can promise you, on my mothers grave, that the next book will definitely, absolutely, without a doubt, be released as soon as I finish writing it.' To which, as was stated, met with much laughter. I did get to hear a few more questions asked, before I was shooed out of the store by a clerk (two by me):

#### Tags

fandom

## Entry #2

#### Jonathan Gan

Can a Gateway be opened horizontally?

#### Robert Jordan

(paused for 3 or 4 seconds in thought) I don't see why not.

#### Tags

traveling
,

gateways

## Entry #3

#### Jonathan Gan

I know I will most likely get a RAFO, but will we ever learn more about Shara?

#### Robert Jordan

Yep, most definitely RAFO.

#### JONATHAN GAN

I thanked him, got my picture taken, and listened to a few more questions:

#### Tags

shara

## Entry #4

#### Question

Question: 'What happens when balefire hits balefire?'

#### Robert Jordan

(with a chuckle)You don't want to know!

#### QUESTION

What happens if you balefire yourself?

#### Robert Jordan

That would be a bit tricky, kind of like performing eye surgery upon yourself.

#### Tags

balefire

## Entry #5

#### Jonathan Gan

That's all I got before I was shooed. Hope this helps!!


---

