# Interview #1036: Pocatello Signing Report - LairdDuncan

- Date: 2013-12-09

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Pocatello, ID

- Reporter: LairdDuncan

- Links
-- [17th Shard (Report)](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/4769-pocatello-signing-12-10-13/page-2#entry79520)

## Entry #1

#### Question

You mention the phases of the moon fairly often in
*The Way of Kings*
—is this significant or something that we should be paying attention to?

#### Brandon Sanderson

After working with the Wheel of Time community and dealing a lot with fans wanting to know when certain events happened in regards to some other event, Brandon added in the phases of the moon in order to give dedicated fans a way of determining the chronology of the events of the Stormlight Archives.

#### Footnote

"Phase" is not the word Brandon used, it has more to do with which moon is up.

[17th Shard](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/4769-pocatello-signing-12-10-13/?p=79688)

#### Tags

chronology
,

stormlight archive

## Entry #2

#### Question

Is there a pattern to Taravangian's stupid/smart cycle, or is it actually random?

#### Brandon Sanderson

His aides are convinced that it is random, but if you plotted it out, it's really a distribution curve that is only made to look random.

#### Tags

taravangian

## Entry #3

#### Question

Dalinar, in one of his visions, sees the stars wink out one by one. Are these the stars of other shardworlds and [Brandon sort of interrupted me here to answer so the rest just kind of came out as a mumble] does this imply that the final Desolation is going to affect more than just Roshar?

#### Brandon Sanderson

You earned yourself a RAFO card!

#### Tags

dalinar
,

stormlight visions


---

