# Interview #172: COT Signing Report - John Nowacki

- Date: 2003-01-23

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Washington, DC

- Reporter: John Nowacki

- Links
-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/c1109e07ccb4cd3d)

## Entry #1

#### John Nowacki

Regarding this afternoon's signing at Olsson's in D.C.: Not much to report.

#### Robert Jordan

He started off with the usual intro about pronunciations, picture taking, the last scene, and so on. Repeated that Olver isn't Gaidal Cain and what's already been mentioned here about someone figuring out who killed Asmodean using material from "up through
*Winter's Heart*
. . . I think." Also the bit about enjoying watching some of us try to figure it out.

#### Tags

olvercain
,

asmodean

## Entry #2

#### John Nowacki

I asked a couple of questions, one of them from
[Zeynep's list](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=171)
. How much time elapsed between the last chapter of
*Crossroads of Twilight*
and the epilogue?

#### Robert Jordan

He thought for a second before giving an RAFO and adding it was not that much, certainly not months.

#### Tags

chronology
,

crossroads of twilight

## Entry #3

#### John Nowacki

Without the True Power to contrast it with, did people in the Age of Legends refer to the 'One Power' and 'True Source', or simply the 'Power' and the 'Source'?

#### Robert Jordan

The names would have been the same, he said, since "One Power" was meant to signify that
*saidin*
and
*saidar*
are two halves of the same thing and not different things entirely.

#### Tags

one power
,

true power
,

saidar
,

saidin
,

age of legends

## Entry #4

#### Robert Jordan

Some kid asked him something about material on the Internet, and he mentioned Wotmania, Dragonmount.com, TarValon.net, and something else. If he said anything about rasfwrj, I didn't hear it.

#### Tags

fandom

## Entry #5

#### Robert Jordan

Someone asked for a little more description about the
*sa'sara*
—as in how does he envision one doing it—which he thought was hilarious. He said she was the first person who'd asked him about it and apart from saying it would be like something a non-tourist might see in Cairo or Istanbul, he said it wouldn't be "boring" like a stripper act in the U.S. He seemed to really get a kick out of this question.

#### Tags

sexuality

## Entry #6

#### Robert Jordan

Someone else said something about his health and got a lengthy recitation of Jordan's blood pressure, cholesterol levels, and so on.

#### John Nowacki

I didn't stay for the whole thing but caught most of it. I may be at tonight's signing in Bailey's Crossroads (someone who's out of town asked me to take her books in and I didn't have time get them all signed this afternoon), and if so, I'll post something about it later this evening.

John Nowacki

#### Tags

rj on life


---

