# Interview #118: WH Signing Report - John Heltsley

- Date: 2000-11-08

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: San Diego, CA

- Reporter: John Heltsley

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/77805bb9f25902b5)


## Entry #1

#### John Heltsley

Although this doesn't have anything to do with the ideas presented in this thread, I can't really justify starting a new thread for a simple comment...

I must say, that I was
*extremely*
disappointed with my meeting of RJ at a book signing in San Diego on the 8th.

I got there about 1 hour before he was to start signing books. When I went inside to purchase my book ahead of time, he was already in there, and was doing an interview for the local news station. I met a few people there, and waited for 4:00pm to roll around. We all got in line (We were assigned numbers in the order we purchased the book—I was #24.), and waited for our turn to see the man.

Turns out that he was not taking any questions during the signing. He was also not personalizing any of the books—so "he could get out of there quicker". (As I was told by a staff member at the book store.) I was disappointed by this, as I had heard that he usually takes a few questions during the book signings, and I had heard that he was a genuinely nice guy. When I got up there, I said "Good Afternoon.", and held my hand out to shake his hand. He ignored my hand, and asked for my books. He signed them, and that was it. Not a single word from him at all.

I was miffed, to say the least, so I left right after that. He might have done something for the fans after all of the books were signed, but by everyone at the store's, and his, attitude, I doubt it. Maybe he had an appointment to go somewhere, or his flight was scheduled soon after the book signings. But regardless, I was extremely put off by his, and the store's, attitudes about this signing.

I'd like to put some of the blame on the store, but I was there when Terry Goodkind's last book came out for his signing—Mr. Goodkind was extremely nice and talkative, and he took about 5-10 minutes with each person in line. (I was 5th in line that night, and it took me 45 minutes to get to him!) Not that I was complaining, though... Therefore, I can't say that RJ's signing was caused by the store pushing him out of there; the choice must have been all on RJ's part, and that ticks me off. Especially since he's my favorite author. I'm not going to stop reading or anything, I just wanted to throw this out there, and get it off my chest.

Anyone out there have any experiences similar to this? Or did I just happen to see him for my first time on a "bad day"?

—John

#### Tags

fandom


---

