# Interview #1019: SpoCon 2013

- Date: 2013-07-10

- Type: Verbatim

- Location: Spokane, WA

- Links
-- [17th Shard](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/4290-)

## Entry #1

Regarding the Lines of Protection in The Rithmatist - is the protective field generated by them as the lines are completed, or...?

#### Brandon Sanderson

As with most things in The Rithmatist, the lines' effect starts when the person who draws them imagines the effect taking place. There is a mental connection here. As you are drawing, until you are finished, there is nothing there - unless, sometimes, there might be if you imagine it to be there. The Rithmatist is (mostly) consistent with the Cosmere rules.

## Entry #2

You recently announced that you will be writing a new Cosmere short story called Skyward. Could you talk a little bit about that?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Skyward is the working title. It will be a teen novel in the Cosmere. It's a science fiction era.

#### Tags

skyward
,

cosmere

## Entry #3

Are Selish magics their own distinct systems, or are they different manifestations of one system?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Different manifestations of one system, which is in turn a manifestation of the common laws between the worlds.

## Entry #4

Is all magic on Sel influenced by both Dominion and Devotion?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Technically, yes. But they definitely have their themes and focuses. Influence is a tricky word, I'll warn you.

## Entry #5

Before Sel's Shards were Splintered, were the Investitures there still form-based?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Umm... yes. The are all programming-based. But of course, with true programming, the form doesn't matter, it's the numbers. And in this case the form does. The actual depictions do matter.


---

