# Interview #11: TSR Signing Report - Brian McKee

- Date: 1992-10-01

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Dayton, OH

- Reporter: Brian McKee

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written/msg/908c2377e010584e)


## Entry #1

#### Brian McKee

A local (huge!) bookstore here in Dayton called Books & Co. has
*The Shadow Rising*
. I bought it last night, and found out the Robert Jordan was there for a book signing! I wish I had known ahead of time so I could have brought all four in the Wheel of Time series.

#### Robert Jordan

Several people had ALL of his books, including his Conan books and several written under pseudonyms—he mentioned writing westerns and historical (e.g. civil war) novels under the names Reagan [O'Neal] and [Jackson] O'Reilly.

#### Tags

rj on writing
,

pseudonyms

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

Jordan was quite interesting and personable. He said he used to be an engineer of some kind. He LOOKED and sounded somewhat like a computer-type (a little nerdy—I can say that, since I'm one too :-)). It took FOREVER to get through the few people who were there for the signing (it wasn't advertised, at least not very well), because he took a break between each book he signed to tell a little bit more about himself (which was definitely interesting). Several people asked, of course, how the series was going to end, and, of course, he wouldn't say, except to suggest finding out by buying the book when it's published. He mentioned that there was a special limited edition set of the four books in the series so far being published in leather bound, gold-inset (?) volumes, selling for around $200 (or was it $200 per book?). I think he said only 200 copies would be published (200 seemed to come up a lot in his dialogue :-)).

#### Tags

how will it end?
,

rj on life
,

merchandise
,

rj the man


---

