# Interview #241: KOD Signing Report - Frenzy

- Date: 2005-10-28

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: San Jose, CA

- Reporter: Frenzy

- Links
-- [Theoryland](http://theoryland.yuku.com/reply/201146/t/San-Jose-Signing.html#reply-201146)

## Entry #1

#### Frenzy

Don't ask. I have weird friends. :p

Here are a few pictures from the signing. JWB got there early, so we got primo spots in line. We were singing along a bit when Jordan was reiterating some of the pronunciations and announcements he's said at other signings (and have been reported here and elsewhere).

#### Robert Jordan

He looked at us and said (paraphrased), "some of you have seen the websites."

#### Tags

fandom

## Entry #2

#### Frenzy

Jason from Dragonmount was there, cool to meet him. He's gonna ask Jordan a question I didn't get to ask, I'll let you know how it goes.

## Entry #3

#### Frenzy

But what I DID get to ask, was this: Can a person who hasn't actively channeled yet be severed or stilled?

#### Robert Jordan

Jordan's response (paraphrased) "No, you have to have something to take away something, so a person has to have an active connection to the Source to be able to have it cut."

#### Frenzy

Oh, the mayhem I can have with this little nugget.

small: This explains why the Reds haven't summarily tried to gentle every boy at birth or every man by 30.

big: If it takes an active link to the Source to slow, or to be stilled, then what about all those other attributes that
*sul'dam*
gain with use of the
*a'dam*
? Where do they come from? How did they get there?

bigger: Is it possible that those attributes are NOT directly linked to the Source? Could it be merely the exposure to the One Power that gives
*sul'dam*
that ability? What about a Warder? Could a same-sex non-channeling warder develop those attributes over time?

I need sleep now, I'll ponder this more later.

#### Tags

stilling
,

gentling
,

severing
,

sul'dam
,

slowing
,

warders
,

warder bond
,

red ajah
,

one power


---

