# Interview #299: Robert Jordan's Blog: A LITTLE CONTEST

- Date: 2007-02-13

- Type: Verbatim

- Links
-- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/blog/4/entry-372-a-little-contest/)

## Entry #1

#### Robert Jordan

Hi, guys. Sorry this isn't the usual health update, but I'll get to that in another post shortly. A few days, but no more, I promise. This is about something else completely. In fact, it was inspired by a comment someone posted on the blog. I liked the idea and took it to my agent and my publisher. They like it, too.

We are going to run a contest to find the 15 best pieces of fan artwork out there. I know there is some really professional quality work because I have seen it. Submit your work to Jason Denzel ( those who read a version of this announcement on a few other sites will see somebody else to submit to; dinna fash yourself. That means don't worry about it.). Jason and a few other webmasters will act are first judges as to which pieces to send on to me for final judging. The winning pieces will be gathered into a calendar, and here comes the important part. The normal royalties this calendar will earn, along part of the profits, will be donated to Amyloidosis Research at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN. They are really home base for that in this country, quite aside from keeping me alive this far. Now that means that by submitting and having a piece chosen to send on to me, you will be signing away future publication rights for that piece. Winners will get a copy of the calendar, of course, with my autograph and a note of acknowledgement on the page containing your artwork. For monetary rewards, you'll have to hope that some publisher sees and likes your work well enough to offer you a commission. Publishers are always on the lookout for new artists. Otherwise you must settle for the glory, such as it is, of being published in the calendar. Style doesn't matter in this. Manga, hyper-realism, current cover-art. Whatever. Anything and everything is acceptable as a possibility. It will be the quality that counts, not the style. If you want to try it the way you think Rembrandt would have done it, go for it. Though I have a hard time picturing that. Rand as a member of "The Night Watch?" Well, maybe. Try whatever you like. I hope to keep this contest running year after year for a number of years. Possibly, in a few years, there will be enough winners to collect as an art book, perhaps fleshed out with a few artists who didn't quite make the cut in their particular year. So go for it, guys. Let the farce be with you. Oh. Sorry. That's another series, isn't it?

Take care, everybody.

Back to you, soon.

RJ

#### Tags

fan art
,

amyloidosis

## Entry #2

#### Jason Denzel

Editor's Note: The details of this contest (rules, timing, etc) are being worked out right now. Once everything is settled, we'll post them up on Dragonmount, Wotmania, Encyclopedia WoT.


---

