# Interview #240: KOD Signing Report - Caychris

- Date: 2005-10-27

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Half Moon Bay, CA

- Reporter: Caychris

- Links

-- [Theoryland](http://theoryland.yuku.com/sreply/201210/t/frenzy-.html#.ToSY_b-4LqY)


## Entry #1

#### Caychris

This was a fairly well attended event at a rather small book store. Since this was my first book signing ever I didn't know what to expect except what I've read about the others.

#### Robert Jordan

He did give a small speech concerning the same news and events about book twelve, the new series, the prequels, and the possibility of a couple of one-off stories outside of the main characters. He went over some pronunciation.

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

And tried to forestall the most obvious and 'hated' questions. Saying that he would punch the guy who asked about Asmodean in the nose.

#### Tags

asmodean
,

silly questions

## Entry #3

#### Caychris

Then he opened it up to Q&A for a short bit. From what I remember, there were some questions about writing and I had seen his answers before elsewhere, so nothing new.

## Entry #4

#### Seth Suchy

[Seth] asked about the house and the flies.

#### Robert Jordan

He said it was a time loop trap set by Fain and if Rand had not left the house it would have repeated indefinitely till Rand died.

#### Footnote

The scene is in
*The Great Hunt*
, Ch. 10. RJ's assertion that Fain set the trap was also reported by
[Chris](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=239#4)
, who might possibly be the same person. (One report is from Wotmania; the other is from Dragonmount; sometimes people write separate reports for separate forums.) This Q&A was confirmed randomly on Facebook years later by the person who asked the question,
[Seth Suchy](https://i.imgur.com/c4NN3gd.png)
.

In Robert Jordan's notes, he explains that it was Lanfear who set the fly trap, and why:

> [Lanfear, of course, laid the trap for him in the village. None could trigger it but one who could channel. Her own test, perhaps, to see if he really is who Ba'alzamon claims him to be, or at least if he might be. If he is the Dragon Reborn, he must be, at least potentially, one of the most powerful channelers in history, and it would take a powerful channeler to escape from that loop. It would also serve the purpose of pushing him to use the Power.] (HUNT CONTINUITY 2, p. 12)

He also noted in the same file that Verin knew the Power had been used in that village:

> NOTE: Verin came through the village where Fade was nailed to the door. She knows Power was used there, but not how, since the trap was dispelled by Rand's escape. She would be uneasy about this, perhaps ask if they had encountered an Aes Sedai. (HUNT CONTINUITY 2, p. 1)

We are not sure whether RJ changed his mind, or whether he had forgotten his notes by the time he was asked this question and just made something up on the spot.

#### Tags

fain
,

rand
,

lanfear
,

verin
,

rj's notes
,

one power
,

the great hunt

## Entry #5

#### Caychris

Then someone who came in late asked the question. [about who killed Asmodean]

#### Robert Jordan

RJ wound up with a fist like he was going to punch him, and the groan that had run through the store turned to laughter.

He reiterated why he isn't telling, and that he has tried to place a few clues in the latter books. He said that if occasion permits in the last book, and it seems appropriate, the character doing the deed will probably think to themselves about killing Asmodean. However he gave no guarantee. But he did say he will reveal Asmodean's killer if he doesn't in the book before the paperback of book 12 comes out.

He also went on to mention that there is one website that gets it right with a very complete listing of the suspects with motives and facts that gets it right. He wasn't going to tell us which one. He said they got the right 'why' as well, and they used only facts in prior to the murder. I later asked him if he could say when he found out about the website and he said he couldn't remember, but it was quite some time ago.

#### Tags

asmodean
,

a memory of light

## Entry #6

#### Caychris

I don't remember any other questions that may have had any significant information not shared before elsewhere.

## Entry #7

#### Caychris

As he was signing my books, I asked him about if the
*stedding*
were natural.

#### Robert Jordan

He looked puzzled for a second and answered, "Yes...in a way." Then he asked if I had expected a less cryptic answer. To which I said, No.

#### Tags

ogier
,

stedding

## Entry #8

#### Caychris

All in all I found RJ very captivating as a person. I hung around while he signed stock books when nearly everyone had gone and just listened to some of his observations on his and other writer's fans and anything else that came up.

The book store staff were wonderful and helped me find some stuff I'd been looking for. Martin is going to be there on the 18th, so I'm thinking about going there as well.

If I remember anything else I'll be sure to post it.


---

