# Interview #321: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Annotations + Facebook

- Date: 2008-01-16

- Type: Verbatim

- Links

-- [brandonsanderson.com](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/blog/595/Annotations--Facebook)


## Entry #1

#### Brandon Sanderson

New Annotations!

[WELL OF ASCENSION: Chapter Twenty](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/annotation/207/Mistborn-2-Chapter-Twenty)
  
[WELL OF ASCENSION: Chapter Twenty-One](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/annotation/208/Mistborn-2-Chapter-Twenty-One)

So, I'm not sure I GET social networking websites. I have a Myspace, and I started updating it and keeping my blog, but eventually the number of spam add requests I got—mixed with how frustrating it was to log in all the time and deal with all of those in-your-face-ads—was too annoying for me. The page has languished without being touched in months and months.

LiveJournal I get, and I rather like. It's a place for people to host blogs, and all of their friend tools make it really easy to read what is happening in people's lives. I think they have a great product, and they make it very easy to post remotely—which I do.

Facebook . . . I don't know what to make of Facebook. I like that I'm not blasted with advertisements, and the friend requests have all been legitimate. They allow me to remotely post my blog there by giving me tools that mirror my LJ. All in all, it seems a good product. The problem, then, is that I'm not sure I GET Facebook. (Like I said above.)

Do people go there to read blogs? Does anyone actually see my blog posts there? They come as imported notes. Facebook fans, help me out. How can I make certain that when a blog post of mine is imported, a message appears on the home page of those who have friended me. Also, how can I indicate on my profile that the main way I update my Facebook is through those imported notes? I've had a lot of friend request lately, and I'd like people to know what's up with stuff.

#### Tags

mistborn

## Entry #2

#### Brandon Sanderson

Finally, what's up with stuff? Well, I'm a little over a quarter of the way through the
*Warbreaker*
4.0 rewrite. It's going smoothly, and I'm feeling much less stressed now that I know it will be off the plate completely and done. I will have everything in order when I start
*A Memory of Light*
. That's good, because as a writer, I tend to get very focused. I like to work on one project at a time and put my all into it. I really don't like worrying about other projects while focused like that, and this way, I won't have any other obligations to publishers until next fall. Doing
*Warbreaker*
now may push my work on
*A Memory of Light*
back a few weeks, but it will mean that I can devote myself better to that book when the time comes, and that will make working on it go much more smoothly.

#### Tags

brandon on writing wot
,

warbreaker


---

