# Interview #382: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Updates

- Date: 2008-10-25

- Type: Verbatim

- Links
-- [brandonsanderson.com](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/blog/723/Updates)

## Entry #1

#### Brandon Sanderson

Mistborn Two: New Annotation
[Chapter Forty Eight](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/annotation/240/Mistborn-2-Chapter-Forty-eight)

*Warbreaker*
: Copyedit is done and turned in. I actually got this done earlier in the week, but was bouncing around too much doing other things to get the percentage bar updated.

Mistborn Three: Finding the book is still spotty, since the bestseller list spiked another round of sales. Right now, my agent says that Borders stores are slightly more likely to have copies than B&N. However, the best place to find copies are places that I've visited recently on my tour. I think Sam Weller's may even have a few numbered copies left, though those may be gone by now. (Call them first, I'd suggest, to see if there are any still there.)

Note that I'll be signing in San Diego this evening, and Mysterious Galaxy is well known for its willingness to get books to people. (They have a webstore which sells signed first editions across the world.) I'll bet if you call them today before 2pm Pacific, they'd be willing to get you a copy personalized and then ship it to you. Heck, if you call between 2 and 4, I'll bet that Dave and I are there signing still and you can tell me personally what you want me to write in your book.

Mysterious Galaxy
  
7051 Clairemont Mesa Blvd.
  
Suite #302
  
San Diego, CA 92111
  
Tel: 858.268.4747

#### Tags

mistborn
,

warbreaker

## Entry #2

#### Brandon Sanderson

*A Memory of Light*
: I've had a couple of inquiries about the percentage bar here. I think I warned you way back in June that October would be a rough month for progress on the book, since it's hard to write when I'm on the road. But I'm still trying. Right now, I feel that I need to refresh my memory a little on the series, since I finished my read-through way back in March. So I'm re-reading
*Knife of Dreams*
at the moment. The progress bar doesn't reflect this, but I AM making motion through the book. I want to be careful to do the novel right. But I still anticipate being able to finish by the end of December. You may see the percentage bar tick up a few more points during the next few weeks of tour, but it's not going to go at the speed it did during August when I was pulling twelve and sixteen hour days writing because I knew that October was going to slow me down.

#### Tags

tgs:wip
,

wotrr


---

