# Interview #405: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Various Notes

- Date: 2009-03-13

- Type: Verbatim

- Links

-- [brandonsanderson.com](http://brandonsanderson.com/blog/767/Various-Notes)


## Entry #1

#### Brandon Sanderson

I'm making progress on these
*A Memory of Light*
edits, slowly but surely. It's a lot more time-consuming than other books I've edited for several reasons. First off, I've got a lot of input coming in from Charleston. I receive feedback on every chapter not just from Harriet, but from Alan and Maria as well. It's all very good advice, but it's like juggling three editors on the same project, each with different specialties. The sheer organization of it all can be daunting sometimes.

Recently—today and yesterday—I spent producing some new material for the first time in a while. One of the issues with revisions like this is that sometimes, Harriet and the others point out holes in the story which require new scenes to patch properly. As such, I've been 'spot writing' so to speak, crafting new scenes. Some are holes I knew were there and intended to patch, others were holes I left thinking that they would be all right—that readers would make the leap from one scene to another without the bridge scene. In one case, it's a scene I hadn't realized everyone would want to see, but they really do, so I've started work on it. I expect this to continue for the next few days, so you might see the main "A Memory of Light" progress bar inch up a few points. It's at 110% right now. (Which means 440k of completed manuscript, not counting some scenes that Mr. Jordan worked on that haven't yet happened in the chronology.)

The basic estimate for the final length remains the same as it has since about last summer. 750k words. I'll let you know if I think that needs to be revised, but I really won't be able to guess until I've completed more of the manuscript. As I've warned, also, keep an eye on Dragonmount and Tor.com for official announcements related to the Wheel of Time. I'd guess that something will pop up in the next several weeks.

#### Tags

tgs:wip
,

harriet
,

team jordan
,

alan
,

maria

## Entry #2

#### Brandon Sanderson

And, in other random news, a reader was googling mistcloaks for costume ideas
[and ran across this](http://mine.icanhascheezburger.com/view.aspx?ciid=2381548)
. Yes, that is what you fear it to be. A Mistborn Lolcat, posted randomly on Icanhascheezburger. Heaven help us all. (And thanks so much for that link, Jon.)

#### Tags

mistborn


---

