# Interview #44: LOC Signing Report - Julie Kangas

- Date: 1994-10-28

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Santa Monica, CA

- Reporter: Julie Kangas

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/c4764d3c3eb82007)


## Entry #1

#### Julie Kangas

Here's my snippet from the Santa Monica signing...

While inching down the 405 to Santa Monica, I passed a car with the licensce plate MRDRAGN. The driver was short with dark hair, so I
*snort*
ed and thought 'just another
*false*
dragon.'

I arrived early and was number 3 in line. I spent about an hour chatting with Robert Jordan before the signing.

Ok, ok, he was just some guy with the same name. :) I told him he should get access to this group so he could yank everyone's chains. It was funny to watch him get a book signed 'to Robert Jordan from Robert Jordan.'

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

The real Robert Jordan was late arriving (he had an earlier signing and then an interview) and asked for a three book limit. I had six books so got to talk to him twice.
He looked kind of tired and seemed to be in a hurry to get to everyone. Most of my questions got a 'read and find out.' He said he had read the 'Is Bela a Darkfriend?' thread from this group. He shook his head in a bemused manner as he said this.

#### Tags

fandom
,

bela
,

rj the man

## Entry #3

#### Julie Kangas

I asked him if he based any of the male characters on himself.

#### Robert Jordan

He answered 'Of course not. All of them are flawed.'

:)

Julie

#### Tags

rj on writing
,

rj on life
,

characterization
,

gender


---

