# Interview #654: LOC Signing Report - Mike Allen

- Date: 1994-10-27

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Concord, CA

- Reporter: Mike Allen

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/4f79c73476606d90)


## Entry #1

#### Mike Allen

[In response to
[this report](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=40#2)
...] I was the one who asked the question, so I guess I get to put my 2 cents in here. I did indeed ask "Why the pseudonym?", but I had no answer for his snappy retort.

#### Robert Jordan

He kind of assumed that I heard about it from the net, because he went on to say that, although he was not on the Net, someone had sent him a copy of the FAQ, and the 25% of the speculation was right, 25% was near-right, and the rest was just plain wrong.

#### Tags

wotfaq
,

fandom

## Entry #2

#### Mike Allen

After my turn in the wheel of signings, I joined a bunch of other Net fiends in the corner, whispering about this or that. I asked their opinions on why the Hundred Companions were all men, when the greatest works were always accomplished by men and women together. Another person (Dana, I believe) suggested that it might be because when one part of a link failed, the whole thing failed, and that in a combat situation it would be impossible to maintain a proper circle. None of us knew if that was true or not, so someone brought it to RJ's attention.

#### Robert Jordan

His response was what you probably predicted: "You want me to give a clue like that away for nothing?" Feeling brash, I then said, "OK, just why were the Hundred Companions all men?" He merely grumbled and shook his head as he signed the next book.

#### Tags

hundred companions
,

gender
,

age of legends

## Entry #3

#### Mike Allen

He left the signing in a big white Cadillac, in case anyone cares.

Mike Allen
  
(who never posts :)


---

