# Interview #609: Amsterdam Pancakes and Fries Report - yks

- Date: 2011-05-30

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Amsterdam, NL

- Reporter: yks

- Links
-- [Theoryland](http://www.theoryland.com/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=150622#poststop)

## Entry #1

#### yks

It was super-cool and to think I almost missed it...well, I did miss the main event but not the afterparty, so to say.

## Entry #2

#### Brandon Sanderson

Right, so on the trainride, there was talk of the prologues, Brandon said that in each of the prologues for the last three books there is one section that was fully written by RJ—in
*The Gathering Storm*
it was the farmer scene and in
*Towers of Midnight*
it was the Borderlanders' scene.

He said that the prologue will most probably be released ahead of time again (no big surprise there) and ideally he'd like for people to be able to buy the prologue and then get that much discount on the actual book, however that's difficult to manage with laws and regulations and such.

#### Tags

who wrote what?
,

the gathering storm
,

towers of midnight
,

amol:wip

## Entry #3

#### Brandon Sanderson

He also said that he's planning another Great Hunt before the release of the last book (and Theorylanders start prepping now).

#### Tags

wotgh

## Entry #4

#### Brandon Sanderson

About writing, he said he writes linearly per character or character group and it later gets decided how it all gets woven together in the book.

#### Tags

brandon on writing wot

## Entry #5

#### yks

That's all I can remember right now before finishing my morning coffee. I'll write more later if anything comes to mind.

Also, welcome Jarno.


---

