# Interview #641: Alloy of Law Signing Report - littleleicesterfox

- Date: 2011-11-21

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Milton Keynes, UK

- Reporter: littleleicesterfox

- Links
-- [Theoryland](http://www.theoryland.com/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=169961#poststop)

## Entry #1

#### littleleicesterfox

Quick quick summary, I'll post a longer write up later.

## Entry #2

#### Terez

Ask him if Rand's question about how to 'win and survive' the Last Battle counted as two questions.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Terez: the win and survive counted as ONE question, very direct answer there. :)

#### Tags

rand
,

aelfinn
,

prophecies

## Entry #3

#### Landro

Was the person we know as Taim who is currently leading the Black Tower the same as the one who declared himself as a false Dragon?

#### Brandon Sanderson

RAFO.

#### Tags

taim
,

black tower

## Entry #4

#### littleleicesterfox

Another lurking Theorylander was there, very good question, very interesting answers. Will post more tomorrow.

## Entry #5

#### [littleleicesterfox (22 November)](http://www.theoryland.com/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=170009#poststop)

Right, the question asked by another British Theorylander who was a thoroughly lovely guy to chat to but I'll let him identify himself was:

## Entry #6

#### LordJuss

How did Egwene easily break free from the
*a'dam*
placed upon her in
*Tel'aran'rhiod*
by Mesaana when the
*a'dam*
placed upon Moghedien (a mistress of
*Tel'aran'rhiod*
) was so effective?

#### Brandon Sanderson

This got Brandon thinking hard but he RAFO'd it in the end but he did say 'are you a Theorylander?' which did make us laugh. :)

#### Tags

egwene
,

a'dam
,

mesaana
,

moghedien
,

tel'aran'rhiod
,

towers of midnight


---

