# Interview #650: COT Signing Report - Sonne

- Date: 2003-01-21

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Philadelphia, PA

- Reporter: Sonne

- Links
-- [silklantern](http://web.archive.org/web/20030428012000/http://www.silklantern.com/feature.php?mode=view&feature=29)

## Entry #1

#### Sonne

As I navigated my car into a vacant space on the far end of the parking lot of the Chester County Book & Music Company, I noticed a black stretch limo outside of the bookstore. It would be there all night, and it was Robert Jordan’s ride. Immediately, I figured that this man might be a jerk. I’d heard stories and disappointments.

I soon learned that Robert Jordan is a completely reasonable and down to earth person.

#### Robert Jordan

He explained his basic rules of book signing, answered a few FAQs, and took a generous amount of time to take pictures with every person and answer every question. While I waited for my queue number to be called, I stood near the side of the table where the author sat and listened to questions asked by other fans, and Jordan’s answers. Naturally, he gave a few RAFOs (read and find outs), but he discussed and announced some very interesting and key points about his work.

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

Firstly, Robert Jordan announced that someone on the internet had used the evidence he’d presented to determine who killed Asmodean. He would not say who got it right, or on what site he found it, or who the killer is. However, this proves that Jordan obviously cares at least somewhat about what we actually think about his work and what we can deduce from it, though as an experienced writer, he will do what he wishes in his own story and with his own characters.

#### Tags

asmodean

## Entry #3

#### Robert Jordan

The author also took great care in his signature. While he does not personalize and writes only his name, his signature is somewhat elaborate and done with a careful hand. He didn’t mind people taking time in taking pictures, as he is a self-described “photo-slut.”

#### Tags

rj on fame

## Entry #4

#### Robert Jordan

About the end of the book, as we all know, Jordan explained that he has always had the series’ ending planned. However, he was also careful to mention that he didn’t want all of the minor sub-plots to be neatly tied up at the end of the series. I think he may have been implying that such sub-plots might also make for great (long) short stories and mini-epics.

Regardless of whether or not this is true, it is clear that much will still go unanswered and leave us much to debate about, even after the series is through. In reality, every situation does not get neatly tied up and patched at the end, and after so much conflict in Jordan’s fantasy world, he doesn’t want something that unrealistic to happen there, either.

#### Tags

outriggers
,

the last scene
,

how will it end?

## Entry #5

#### Sonne

Naturally, many of Robert Jordan’s most loyal fans are writers. One such fan asked Jordan advice on writing and keeping up a pace.

#### Robert Jordan

The author suggested setting a daily goal. He said that even if you only write one page per day, you will have 365 pages in one year, and that could be a novel. (I was quick to realize that 365 pages by Robert Jordan, however, would hardly qualify as more than a teaser!)

#### Tags

writing advice

## Entry #6

#### Sonne

RJ also gave me some career advice. Careful not to offend him or imply that his wife is not an adequate editor, I asked if he had any advice for me, a wannabe Assistant Editor.

#### Robert Jordan

The Creator himself merely chuckled and admitted that he mostly tries avoiding New York City and those types, as he hates attending cocktail parties and other dreary social functions! However, he then encouraged me to keep writing, and submit manuscripts. He was pretty adamant about that.

#### Tags

rj on life
,

writing advice
,

harriet


---

