# Interview #780: London Signing Report - ValMar

- Date: 2011-06-04

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: London, UK

- Reporter: ValMar

- Links
-- [tor.com](http://www.tor.com/blogs/2011/05/the-wheel-of-time-re-read-knife-of-dreams-part-7#190844)

## Entry #1

#### ValMar

A few words on the signing which Brandon Sanderson did today, Saturday, in London. I intended to post it on Tuesday so more people may come across it, and still probably will post it again, then.

I got to the bookstore (Forbidden Planet) late and missed most of the Q & A session at the beginning. Bloody traffic jam!

## Entry #2

#### ValMar

The only WOT answer of note that I heard related to the possible prequels. Apart from what I already knew, that he would write them if it is decided to go ahead but is very uneasy about the idea, there was one little thing.

#### Brandon Sanderson

He is particularly interested in the story of Tam.

Later, I also overhead Brandon say that chances are very slim on the books (prequels and/or sequels—couldn't hear which) being written. He is concerned on the commercialization of RJ's name—where can they draw the line if they start with the prequels/sequels?

#### ValMar

For what it's worth, I would love to read about Moiraine and Lan's adventures searching for Rand.

#### Tags

prequels
,

outriggers

## Entry #3

#### ValMar

He signed my book adding "Iron to bind". Nice touch—especially since if I got to choose between the options this would be the one I pick.

## Entry #4

#### ValMar

I asked him on the difference in Tuon/Fortuona's character we see between
*Knife of Dreams*
/
*The Gathering Storm*
and
*Towers of Midnight*
.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Basically, it is to do mainly with her environment whilst with Mat. For the first time she was with someone close to her who she can trust. We know how they do things in the Imperial family. After Thanksgiving gatherings they have to do a roll call for the survivors.

Back amongst the Seanchan she is home to chaos and a totally different situation. She will have much different mindset. Also, in
*Towers of Midnight*
she is dealing with the White Tower—an issue which makes the most placid Seanchan go rabid.

When I pushed Brandon regarding possible involvement of Greandal, he refuted it. Or at least said that if I am "digging" for something—there is nothing I can find. Something to that effect.

#### Tags

tuon
,

mat
,

characterization
,

graendal

## Entry #5

#### ValMar

The organizers had announced rather naively that the event would be from 1pm to 2pm. The signing began at 1.30 and would've lasted at least until 3.30. There was very large attendance and as always Brandon was great and very engaging with everyone.

I am glad that I got to meet him.


---

