# Interview #71: ACOS Signing Report - Lara Beaton

- Date: 1996-08-23

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Vancouver, BC

- Reporter: Lara Beaton

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/d741c833e02c360d)


## Entry #1

#### Lara Beaton

Rob Watson, Greebs and I went to the Jordan signing yesterday. After badgering him with tons of questions, we got the following information:

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

Randland size: Randland is approximately 4500 miles across. Seanchan is as big as Randland, the Aiel Waste, and Shara all put together (a single empire the size of North and South America).

#### Tags

geography
,

seanchan

## Entry #3

#### Robert Jordan

How Verin could determine the Ogier had no mind inside a
*stedding*
: We're going to find out something in the next few books about people without souls and characteristics of them. (He started out saying that we're going to find out something significant about Verin, then stopped.)

#### Footnote

RJ worked in an explanation in the next book, TPOD5, when Perrin wakes in Berelain's tent. Berelain tells him: "[Annoura] said you almost felt like someone who had lost his soul, cold no matter how many blankets were piled on you. I felt it, as well, when I touched you."

#### Tags

verin
,

stedding
,

ogier
,

the great hunt
,

trayal
,

the ways
,

machin shin
,

souls

## Entry #4

#### Robert Jordan

Ogier: Were not genetically engineered (blew Greebs' looney Longing-taint theory away).

#### Tags

ogier

## Entry #5

#### Robert Jordan

Slayer: Can't channel (blew my looney Moridin theory away). He has certain "gifts" granted to him by the Dark One, but can't channel either the One Power or the True Power. Cross Slayer off the list of possible Moridin candidates. (Damn, there goes my section of the FAQ :-( )

#### Tags

slayer

## Entry #6

#### Robert Jordan

Everyone in Shadar Logoth killed each other (blows away the 'Mashadar is the souls of the people of Shadar Logoth' theory).

Mashadar occurred after everyone in Shadar Logoth was dead.

#### Tags

shadar logoth
,

mashadar

## Entry #7

#### Robert Jordan

Machin Shin eats the souls
*and*
memories of the people it catches.

#### Tags

machin shin
,

the ways

## Entry #8

#### Robert Jordan

He wouldn't answer the question about the Nine Horse Hitch. (Said he'd have to marry me if he told me. I'm kinda disappointed we didn't get a RAFO.) We figure it's his version of "figs and mice".

#### Tags

inns
,

nine horse hitch

## Entry #9

#### Robert Jordan

Ishamael/Moridin/Shaidar Haran—RAFO.

#### Tags

ishamael
,

moridin
,

shaidar haran

## Entry #10

#### Robert Jordan

Ageless look and Oath Rod—RAFO. (I thought Greebs was going to explode when he didn't answer that one directly.)

#### Tags

oath rod
,

three oaths
,

aes sedai

## Entry #11

#### Robert Jordan

Bela is the Neigh'blis.

#### Tags

bela
,

lol

## Entry #12

#### Robert Jordan

The next book isn't going to come out until 1998 because RJ is "a sadistic SOB" (his words, not mine).

#### Tags

the path of daggers

## Entry #13

#### Lara Beaton

Greebs and I came up with a few more questions to ask at the signing in Victoria on Sunday, so he'll be posting some more findings soon.

Stuff I found out after the signing—

Greebs likes girly drinks.

I can't play pool to save my life.

Lara Beaton


---

