# Interview #73: SFX Magazine Interview

- Date: 1997-04-01

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: UK

- Reporter: I. Blandford

- Links
-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/browse_thread/thread/17b0ebb9d662d36/c26c7aa2d58ef50b)

## Entry #1

#### I. Blandford

Right then, this is my first mailing so God have mercy on my soul if I write something offensive, stupid, boring or grammatically incorrect...

Anyway, a British SF magazine (SFX) had an interview with RJ a few months back, circa February or March I think. In the interview he said a few things which I haven't read in the FAQ or the newsgroup:

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

Firstly, in the event of his death his will states that his notes on TWoT are to be destroyed and no-one is to complete the series for him.

#### Tags

rj on writing
,

rj on death
,

rj's notes

## Entry #3

#### Robert Jordan

Secondly, The Final Battle (Tarmon Gai-don or however it's spelled) has already started but only now (book 7) are the characters beginning to realise this.

#### Tags

tarmon gai'don

## Entry #4

#### Robert Jordan

Thirdly, in defeating the Dark One, the good guys can expect absolutely no help off the Creator, and no miracles will occur.

#### Footnote

This summary by I. Blandford appears to be of
[this interview](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=841)
, but this bit about the Creator
*appears*
to be an embellishment on the part of Mr. Blandford. Worth noting, however, is that Blandford said the interview was from "a few months back", but he posted about it in the same month that the documented issue was published, so the documented interview might be an abbreviation of an earlier, longer interview. Any help finding this issue would be appreciated.

#### Tags

tarmon gai'don
,

creator

## Entry #5

#### I. Blandford

So when did the Final Battle begin then? Book one, chapter one; or later; or earlier?


---

