# Interview #707: Alloy of Law Signing Report - zxg15

- Date: 2011-11-12

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Vancouver, BC

- Reporter: zxg15

- Links
-- [17th Shard](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/1164-vancouver-signing/)

## Entry #1

#### zxg15

First time poster, long time lurker. I was very excited when Brandon announced that he was coming to Vancouver, since I've wanted to see him in person since I started reading his books about 3 years ago. I figured I would share what I think is new info from the signing.

## Entry #2

#### zxg15

One person asked what metal Wax's earring was made of.

#### Brandon Sanderson

He wouldn't say which metal, however he did confirm that it does have a "slight hemalurgic charge".

#### Tags

hemalurgy
,

harmony
,

mistborn
,

alloy of law
,

allomancy
,

wax

## Entry #3

#### Brandon Sanderson

He talked briefly about a collaboration between him and a military friend on a military SciFi novel which is in the works.

#### Tags

future books

## Entry #4

#### zxg15

Asked him for more info on what he meant when he said that Stormlight will be organized as two 5-book series within the total 10 books.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Understandably he didn't want to give much away, he wouldn't say if there would be a time skip or not. He did tell me that there would be a large change in tone between books 1-5 and 6-10. Also, he said that since book 2 is now going to be Shallan's, he wants Dalinar's book to be number 5. He then talked about how the 5 characters that were introduced in depth in
*Way of Kings*
would be the the 5 flashback characters for the first 5 books and the others would be more focused on in the final 5 books.

#### Tags

stormlight archive
,

future books


---

