# Interview #77: ACOS Signing Report - Michael Martin

- Date: 1996-10-12

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Cincinnati, OH

- Reporter: Michael Martin

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/4dbea41da9aa1c04)


## Entry #1

#### Michael Martin

Most of this has been posted at various times, but I've been encouraged by a number of people to post them collectively, so here they go.

I attended a signing at Joseph-Beth Booksellers in Cincinnati, OH, on 10/12/96. The signing was officially for the
*Fallon*
series, but I recall only one or two
*Fallon*
books. About 35 fans showed.

## Entry #2

#### Question

The Creator's "Inability" To Act On His Creation

Having encountered a similar "theology" in Donaldson's Covenant series, I have been quite curious why the Creator can't act on His own world. It didn't seem to make sense, except as a plot device.

#### Robert Jordan

RJ answered this question. His thesis was this: A perfect Creator should create a perfect creation. To act, miraculously or no, on this world, would be tantamount to acknowledging imperfection in Himself. So, when humanity screwed things up, they've been left on their own to "patch" things up. :-)

#### MICHAEL MARTIN

This sheds a LOT of light on some things in Randland. First, there will not be any final expiation of evil (i.e. Book of Revelation in Christianity). What we have is an infinite cycle ("Wheel") of the struggle of light and darkness. The best to be hoped for is an eternal balance, rather than some final, complete victory (for good). This bothers me on several fronts, not the least that evil can win and good can't.

Also note that this really helps explain Fel's ramblings in
*Lord of Chaos*
. The sealing, Bore and all that will just cycle endlessly.

#### Tags

creator

## Entry #3

#### Michael Martin

The VOICE At Tarwin's Gap (
*The Eye of the World*
)

Since the Creator cannot or will not act in creation, we can reasonably surmise that it wasn't the Creator's voice Rand heard when chasing Ishamael (I had hoped it was). So, then whose was it? The Dark One's "voice" is written in all caps in
*Lord of Chaos*
, but the
voice in
*The Eye of the World*
is caps and italics. This may just be a change in how RJ wrote the Dark One's voice, but it may signify a different speaker.

## Entry #4

#### Robert Jordan

The Two \*gars

RJ admitted outright that they were Aginor and Balthamel, and that Aginor was the male and Balthamel was the woman. I still feel that Aginor describing himself as "helping" make the Trollocs is not consistent, but hey, I didn't write the books. When I asked
him if he was confirming their IDs, RJ said (in a slightly tired tone), "I've never
*denied*
it." This was rather surprising to me, to say the least.

#### Tags

aginor
,

balthamel
,

transmigration
,

osan'gar
,

aran'gar

## Entry #5

#### Robert Jordan

Vietnam/Rand's "No Kill Woman" Thing

RJ vividly described an experience he had in Vietnam where he killed a female Viet Cong. He said he simply spotted a figure holding a weapon and fired on it, then "acquired the next target." He then realized that he had killed a woman—the first (and I believe only) time he's done that. This provides an obvious basis for Rand's "Achilles' Heel." (I thought he should have offed both the Tower Aes Sedai in the beginning of
*A Crown of Swords*
and Lanfear earlier, but I'm rude like that.)

#### Tags

rand
,

rj on life
,

wot influences
,

vietnam
,

military
,

gender

## Entry #6

#### Michael Martin

Sorry about the length, but I've tried to keep this as brief as possible. Comments and ideas are welcome.

Michael Martin


---

