# Interview #844: Toronto Signing Report - herid

- Date: 2012-11-03

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Toronto, ON

- Reporter: herid

- Links
-- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/topic/76463-on-book-signing-by-bs-in-toronto/)

## Entry #1

#### herid

I just came back from a book signing by BS at Chapters here in Toronto and I wanted to relate a few tidbits.

It started with about a half hour Q&A which unfortunately I missed
**completely**
because of absolutely horrendous traffic in downtown Toronto.

I did get to ask him a couple of questions when he was signing books and I also heard a couple of questions by other people in line and I want to share those.

## Entry #2

#### Question

Somebody asked if he killed any characters against RJ's wishes.

#### Brandon Sanderson

He said that there was one character who he was going to let live but Harriet insisted should die. And there was another character whose fate was not spelled out in the notes (I didn't quite hear what he said there) and that he killed that character himself. Other than that everybody who dies, dies by RJ's hand. I think he talked about this in other interviews so this is probably not new.

#### Tags

who wrote what?
,

rj's notes
,

how will it end?
,

harriet

## Entry #3

#### Brandon Sanderson

When asked if any of the Forsaken ever had any children he said MAFO.

#### herid

This pretty much means "no" IMO. So I'm afraid that does it for the nice theory that
[Taim is a son of Moridin and Narg](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/topic/76196-crazy-theories/#entry2635381)
. :)

#### Tags

forsaken
,

age of legends

## Entry #4

#### herid

I asked him if there is a time limit on how long the Dark One can hold the souls he grabs.

#### Brandon Sanderson

He said that he is not sure and might have to consult the notes but he thinks that there is a time limit.

#### herid

I think that should put an end to the theories that the Dark One has been holding any souls for hundreds or even thousands of years.

#### Tags

dark one
,

souls
,

transmigration

## Entry #5

#### herid

I also asked him if the Heroes of the Horn are invulnerable when they are called by the Horn.

#### Brandon Sanderson

He was very ready for this question—when I started to explain that Birgitte told Nynaeve something along those lines in
*The Shadow Rising*
he said that he knows the quote I mean and then he said this. Firstly, the Heroes when called by the Horn are not completely invulnerable. But he specifically said that he is not saying that one of them will die. Rather, he said that the issue will be addressed in a discussion between two characters in the book.

#### herid

I found this to be a very interesting answer. I think it puts a serious crimp on the theories that Rand will die and come back to fight the Dark One as a Hero of the Horn.

#### Tags

heroes of the horn
,

horn of valere

## Entry #6

#### herid

I also asked him if the character of Verin had any mythological parallels.

#### Brandon Sanderson

He said that he doesn't know and would have to see if there is anything in the notes. He also said that most of that stuff was done by RJ but he did add some of his own. He specifically mentioned that Perrin getting wounded in the leg in
*Towers of Midnight*
was his own addition. He didn't elaborate but there are a number of deities (particularly blacksmiths of some sort) like Vulcan and Perun who were wounded in the leg.

#### Footnote

Verin is derived from
[Verin or Verrine](http://www.hellhorror.com/demons/demonology/469/Verin.html)
, the demon of impatience.

#### Tags

verin
,

perrin
,

who wrote what?
,

wot influences

## Entry #7

#### herid

That was more or less it on
*A Memory of Light*
–related questions. We chatted a bit after the signing and he was extremely nice. He also said that Jason was there earlier (I would have really liked to meet him) but he was gone by the time I got there.

I wish I wasn't late for the Q&A but perhaps somebody else who was there can post about that.


---

