# Interview #895: AMOL Signing Report - Mike Cockrum

- Date: 2013-01-09

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Skokie, IL

- Reporter: Mike Cockrum

- Links

-- [17th Shard](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/2772-chicago-qa-signing-report/page__view__findpost__p__47238)


## Entry #1

#### Mike Cockrum

I was, sadly, not called on to ask a question during the
[official Q&A](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=892)
, so while getting my books signed, I asked Brandon:

## Entry #2

#### Mike Cockrum

Hoid is regularly around when important events take place. How does he know where to go?

#### Brandon Sanderson

He uses Feruchemy. Part of it that will show up in later books.

#### Tags

hoid
,

feruchemy
,

metallic arts
,

cosmere
,

future books

## Entry #3

#### Mike Cockrum

During book 6 or 7, I forget which, one of the supergirls did a Need walk in
*Tel'aran'rhiod*
to find something to do with The One Power that would help Rand. The end result of this was them discovering the Bowl of the Winds. First, though, she went to the Objects of Power storeroom of the White Tower. What was the thing in the Tower?

#### Brandon Sanderson (paraphrased)

He passed the question to Maria, who didn't know. I asked if it was The Horn of Valere. He said he wasn't sure, but he always thought it was The Horn.

#### Tags

tel'aran'rhiod
,

ter'angreal
,

horn of valere
,

bowl of the winds
,

elayne
,

nynaeve
,

lord of chaos

## Entry #4

#### Mike Cockrum

Apologies if any of this has already been asked and answered elsewhere. Again, I didn't get to ask during the proper Q&A, so I wanted to make sure it was documented.


---

