# Interview #967: AMOL Signing Report - GardenGnome

- Date: 2013-02-15

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Toronto, ON

- Reporter: GardenGnome

- Links

-- [tor.com](http://www.tor.com/blogs/2013/02/a-memory-of-light-tour-report-open-thread#325411)


## Entry #1

#### GardenGnome

I was at the Toronto signing, dressed as an Aes Sedai of the Purple Ajah (if anyone recognizes the old Verin theory about the Light counterpart to the Black Ajah (I think Sanderson recognized it when I explained it)).

There was also a Mat cosplayer, If he is reading this I have one of your dagger and would like to return it.

The opening questions were explaining how he got chosen and the standard questions that are in the interview database.

There was no Harriet and no RAFO cards. :( But I did get a
*Memory of Light*
bag (got lots of tickets from answering trivia).

The answers to my questions, the WOT one asked circumspectly to avoid spoilers:

## Entry #2

#### GardenGnome

(About his Mistborn series) So the cloaks have ribbons attached at the shoulders, do they have more ribbons attached to those ribbons lower down?

#### Brandon Sanderson

The Mistcloaks are customized by the wearers.

#### GardenGnome

(-I'm glad none of the characters went for hotpink-)

#### Tags

mistborn
,

first mistborn trilogy

## Entry #3

#### GardenGnome

(Concerning the crystals collapsing into the hill after the battle) Have you heard of a myth about Merlin in a crystal cave and the Holy Grail? We all know what its other name is.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes but there are many layers there. The
*sa'angreal*
was shaped like a cup (-which I did notice earlier-). And Bao the Wyld, think about the name, it sounds like Beowulf (-looks like I should read that for more theorizing-).

#### Tags

egwene
,

demandred
,

shara
,

sa'angreal
,

arthurian legend
,

wot influences

## Entry #4

#### GardenGnome

I somehow ended up mentioning that I answered the trick trivia question on Nakomi, I told him I said my personal theory and that Brandon wasn't allowed to answer any questions about her.

#### Brandon Sanderson (paraphrased)

He then asked what my theory was (-with an obvious poker face on-), I said that I found it obvious that Nakomi is the Creator (he goes mmmhmm). Then one of the Memory Keepers remarks "But Bela is the Creator!" to which I came up with the new theory that Nakomi is the Creator because Rand wouldn't be able to handle a talking horse.

#### Tags

nakomi


---

