# Interview #966: AMOL Signing Report - Randy Word

- Date: 2013-02-22

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Birmingham, AL

- Reporter: Randy Word

- Links
-- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/topic/79858-birmingham-amol-signing-feb-22-2013/)

## Entry #1

#### Randy Word

The signing in Birmingham started out for the Memory Keepers with 6 of the 7 of us meeting at a local restaurant for a quick bite to maintain our strength because we knew that it was going to be a busy night. We went into the Books-a-Million around 6pm to get organized for Brandon and Harriet's arrival. Since it was raining and there are two entrances we staked out both. As luck would have it, I stepped outside just as Brandon and Harriet were dropped off by their driver.

We got to meet with Brandon and Harriet in a back room to get our books signed and do a quick Q&A session. It was an amazing experience!

Jennifer and Jimmy Liang (JordanCon and Dragonmount) along with Jeffery and Kiley Daniels (
*Ta'veren*
Tees) came to enjoy the last
*A Memory of Light*
signing of the tour with us! Then it was time to go into the store and meet the crowd.

Brandon and Harriet talked to the crowd then took questions and Harriet did a reading from
*A Memory of Light*
before starting the signing. Along with the estimated 300 people there was a couple there that had brought their son Rand (cool name!) to meet Brandon and Harriet as well as one lady who had driven all the way from Kansas City and several from Nashville, southern Mississippi, and Atlanta just to be at the last book store signing! How cool is that!

A couple of people brought gifts for Brandon. One who was a B-1 bomber pilot brought an arming pin to a B-1 bomb that he had dropped and another person brought a FBI patch, hat, and ink pen shaped like a bullet. There were even a few people there in costume and they looked amazing!

TOR had sent a lot of swag that we were able to hand out. Black shoulder bags and iPhone cases with the WoT and
*A Memory of Light*
logos on them and a box full of
*The Way of Kings*
paperbacks. Which was a good thing for some because the book store ran out of most of Brandon's books that night.

After everyone had been through once and had their books signed, Harriet left because it was getting late but Brandon hung around to personalize books for fans and answer more questions.

It was a great night and we met a lot great people. Brandon and Harriet were great and it was an experience all of us Memory Keepers will never forget! I know I'm leaving out a lot, but hopefully the others will post their experience here as well.


---

