# [Interview #692, Entry #4]: 17th Shard Interview](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=692#4)

#### 17th Shard

What's it feel like to finally have your baby released to the public? It's probably a very different feeling from any of your other book launches.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah.

#### 17TH SHARD

Are you more nervous than usual or have the positive ARC compliments made you feel fairly confident?

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I'm more nervous than normal. It has been my baby for a long time, and I got Tor to invest so much into it, what with the cover, the interior art, the end pages, the really nice printing, and the sheer length of it. Tor would really rather not publish books of this length. The rest of the series will be shorter; I promised that to them. I do want to warn readers that the 400,000 word length is not going to be the standard for the series. They're probably going to be more like 300,000 words, which is what this one should have been, but I just couldn't get it down. It was right for the book for it to be this length.I'm worried about it for a couple of reasons. Number one, it is a departure for me in a couple of ways. I've been planning a big massive epic for a long time but I only wanted to have one or two big massive epics. My Adonalsium mythos couldn't support multiples of something this long and so a lot of my other books are much more fast-paced and I do wonder what readers are going to think of a much larger more epic story, because it is going to have a different feel.It's happened every time I've released a book though;
*Warbreaker*
felt very different from Mistborn, which felt very different from
*Elantris*
.
*Way of Kings*
feels very different from all of those as well so I'm worried that there are a lot of readers who are not going to like it as much. I hope that there are a lot of readers who are going to like it more, but we'll have to just see what people think of it.

