# [Interview #196: DragonCon Report - Isabel, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=196#2)

#### Isabel

Dragon Con Day One

As you might all know, or might know now, I am a crazy WoT fan and Nynaeve fan. (I recruited 16 more members for the Official Nynaeve Fanclub.) Infidel: Yeah I am a fangirl.

I met Robert Jordan before four years ago and he thought I was 12 then. (I was 17 at that time.) Anyway, I just go a bit crazy when I can ask Robert Jordan lots of questions. Note I am 21 and not 12; some people were going huh, she doesn't look 12!

Anyway, first was the signing at one o'clock. I was there already at 11.45 or something like that. So I was first in line. I kept spots for the fellow Theorylanders who would arrive later (Zae, Kitten, Dapple, Hopper). So they were standing next in line.

Anyway, I was really excited about meeting Jordan again. I was kind of jumping up and down and hoping he recognized me.

#### Robert Jordan

He entered and when he sat down, he looked at me and recognized me and said something like: Did you sneak out without telling your mother? The Theorylanders all laughing and then telling them I was 12 again. It can be he said more things, but I have kind of forgotten that. Perhaps some fellow Theorylander will add to it for me.

#### Isabel

Well now the important things for all other people reading this (and yeah you have to read through all this): his answers to a few questions. (I didn't put on my tape recorder, so not all answers are his exact word, but they are correct.)

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*