# [Interview #29: KOD Signing Report - Ted Herman, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=29#1)

#### Ted Herman

Went to Walmart at 7am but the clerks there were not on the ball, so I had to wait until I got to Barnes & Noble to buy
*Knife of Dreams*
, around 10am. I was the first one there, though I ended up second on line. They were strict with two books signed, hardcovers only, per trip through the line, with no personalizations. Also, no question and answer session :(

I did see TMH there (I'm not going to try to spell your name dude :p ) who was a few spots behind me in line. Didn't see anyone else from Theoryland to know it though. But if you were there I was wearing a Mets hat. And reading
*Knife of Dreams*
.

Got a few questions answered though from the list, after going through the line twice. It was an hour wait just about, and I had no more books to sign, so I left. I am going to another signing tonight and possibly one tomorrow though, and hopefully I can winnow out the question list after I complete
*Knife of Dreams*
. No RAFOs either.

#### Robert Jordan

Didn't get really to hear other people's questions either unfortunately, except for one genius who asked when the next book is coming out, and RJ announced to everyone that it would be published after he finishes writing it.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*