# [Interview #1109: Firefight Signing Line Audio, Entry #34](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1109#34)

#### Question

At the end of
*A Memory of Light*
, it mentions that Rand is no longer
*ta'veren*
. Does that apply to Mat and Perrin as well? And if it does, how does it apply to Mat's luck?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Everything I'm saying right now is not 100% canon, because I'm only working off of my guesstimates based on his notes. I believe that Mat's luck is a soul attribute that is independent of him being a
*ta'veren*
, but enhanced by his
*ta'veren*
nature. Part of the proof of this is the Heroes of the Horn knowing him as Gambler, which means in other Ages when he's been born and not been
*ta'veren*
, he's still had luck and attraction to things like that. Plus things in the notes, I'm basing on that. So it does not necessarily mean they aren't
*ta'veren*
right now, but even if they weren't, I think Mat would still have his luck.

#### Question

So you don't know whether they're
*ta'veren*
or not?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I do not know. My suspicion is that if he would have written the outriggers, Mat still would have been, and maybe Perrin, because Perrin was going to be in the outriggers, we know this. But I don't know for sure.
But I think it would have been fun, if in some parallel dimension if I were to have written them, which I'm never going to, I would have not made Mat
*ta'veren*
, or Perrin, I would have made Tuon
*ta'veren*
, and forced Mat to deal with someone else who was
*ta'veren*
, which I think would have been interesting.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*