# [Interview #476: TGS Signing Report - Robert Moreau, Entry #12](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=476#12)

#### Question

Does Mat's medallion work against all types of Power, or just against
*saidar*
? Because you know he said in the book, something to be free of Aes Sedai.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes, that is what he said specifically, but you know, Aes Sedai were both male and female once, and so we don't know yet, and I will have to RAFO that.

#### Another person from audience

But that was in book six.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Was it in book six?

#### Audience

Yeah, that's where Aran'gar gets him with a weave.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Oh, that's right; it did happen. You see, I know a lot of stuff....but I get in trouble if I say too much, because at one of the early signings....no, it wasn't even one of the signings; it was JordanCon. I was talking about....someone asked me a question, and I started answering, talking about, 'Do you remember that scene, where this happened, and this happened, and this happened....' and everyone started staring at me blankly. And I'm like, 'What? No...' and I argued with them that this scene existed. I promised them. No one remembered it! And about a month later, I realized as I was looking through it, 'Oh, it was a deleted scene from book seven.' Which now, in my head, is in book seven! And so I'm very careful not saying things I know, but you're right; that was proven in the books.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*