# [Interview #755: Google+ Hangout, Entry #10](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=755#10)

#### Kim

I was wondering, when you're recording writing excuses, how often do you ahve to stop and take a break because of how hard you're laughing when Mary pulls out her puupet-voices \*laughter\*

#### Brandon Sanderson

Usually, we don't ever want to stop, there have been a few times where we descend to laughter to the point that, that we have to cut things. But usually if we're descending into laughter, that's a good thing because part of what makes writing excuses work is we try to be really genuine, we try to be ourselves. Hopefully an entertaining and snappy version of ourselves, but really just us.

And you know we try to make it quick and fast but also genuine and so we're laughing at that, those moments are ones we love and as long as it's genuine laughter, we can't replicate it. There's some times where something goes wrong technically and we don't end up catching on the audio something that was really awesome and we can never replicate it if it happened, so we like to try to capture those moments live. We don't usually stop to do that so we'll usually get together to record three or four episodes and then we take a break and we'll try to do something to help with the creativity.

Maybe sometimes we'll go out to write, often times we'll go out to lunch and just start chatting and throwing things back at each other, helping each other with stories and then we'll come back and do four more and then do that again and we find that that helps us keep the rhythm and the energy for the podcast.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*