# [Interview #91: TPOD Signing Report - Kevin Bartlett, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=91#9)

#### Robert Jordan

As the line was drying up, the crowd apparently consisted mainly of several booksellers. They got talking about first edition printings of the hardcovers for
*The Eye of the World*
. Jordan said that he has a whole box of them at home, and that he should give the bunch of them to his son, so he can finance all his children's college educations... At a later time, he said that he heard recently from a used fantasy dealer that an
*unsigned*
first printing
*The Eye of the World*
was sold from his store for $700 dollars. RJ said he had heard of prices around $300, but not that high. He also said he heard of first printing
*Lord of Chaos*
's going at $55, which he seemed to think was absurd, since well over 200,000 had been printed. They also commented that at times, the hardcovers have been hard to find, but
*not*
because they had been out of print, but because "sensible" people
*assumed*
they would be out of print. He said that his books "break the rules", in that hardcovers aren't supposed to stay in print for 8-9 years. He also said that at one point, a computer "glitch" resulted in stores remaindering
*The Shadow Rising*
while there was still a high demand for it at the normal price (10,000 sales annually without any advertising). Someone else mentioned that they had been to a bookstore recently which had the hardcover
*A Crown of Swords*
both for sale at the regular price
*and*
on the remaindering table. Jordan expressed significant disgust with screw-ups of this sort.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*