# [Interview #194, Entry #6]: ComicCon Report - Diomedes](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=194#6)

#### Diomedes

After these initial comments, RJ proceeded to take questions from audience members. I won't actually provide all the questions and answers in this post, since a large number are really questions that have been asked many times before, and many of us are already familiar with the answers.

I'm fairly surprised that so many questions were reminiscent of questions that have been posed to RJ in the past, but I think it has given me some insight into our little community here on the Wotmania message board, and the reality of RJ's fan base as a whole. The truth is that we represent a fraction of a percentage of a fraction of a percentage of RJ's audience. Most fans probably don't even know that RJ has numerous interviews posted online that could answer their question, and far far more fans are interested in who RJ's favorite character is, or what advice he might give to aspiring authors than they are about the minutiae of the series. The reality is that the vast majority of his fans are simply content to enjoy the story and wait for the next book without spending hours in discussion about plot points or combing though chapters in search of insights to the possible future the story holds.

So, I won't provide every Q&A, partially because I was in line for the microphone for some of them and unable to jot down the responses, as well as distracting myself with keeping calm and running through my head exactly how I would phrase the questions—not that that particularly helped—but also because some of it is information that has been reported before.

I'll start with my own questions, since they were about the only story-based questions in the whole lot.

