# [Interview #551: SciFi Now Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=551#7)

#### James Rundle

Sure, but how have you found writing in the series? Being a fan, it must be quite a remarkable experience to be able to do this.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, it's been wonderful. It's been amazing, and surreal. Surreal is a really good word for it because I grew up reading these books—these characters are like my high school friends. Being asked to write these books—and I didn't apply for this, I was just asked totally unexpectedly. She just called me on the phone, I hadn't met Robert Jordan and I didn't know that I was being considered. I was considered because I was both a writer in my own right, and a somewhat loudly professed fan of the series. But I hadn't ever considered it, you know? It's so weird—Robert Jordan is still this mythical figure to me. He's this magnificent, almost non-human person, a hero, a Greek god sort of figure—when I was growing up I'd say, "That is what I want to be someday". I would love to be one tenth of what Robert Jordan is, and it was a driving force for me becoming a writer, my love and respect for this amazing writer. And now I'm working on the series. Part of my brain just slips out every day, running around in circles saying, "I can't believe we're doing this! I can't believe we're doing this!" And that's partially out of fear, partially out of pure excitement. I don't know many people who get an opportunity like this, it doesn't happen. It's like Lucas asking you to direct a Star Wars movie, and the closest thing that I can think of, coming back to Tolkien, is the people who were asked to finish
*The Silmarillion*
—Christopher Tolkien and Guy Gavriel Kay working on that, that's the closest thing that I can think of to what I've been asked to do. It's just an amazing honor.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*