# [Interview #551, Entry #8]: SciFi Now Interview with Brandon Sanderson](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=551#8)

#### James Rundle

And have you had to put your own series on hold while working on The Wheel Of Time, or are you working on both?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I put mostly everything on hold. Certainly, a lot of stuff I write as a writer is in between books—I like to switch things up to keep myself from being burned out. I'm a compulsive writer, I love to do this. I write a lot because it's my passion but I do have to switch it up. So after the first one, after
*The Gathering Storm*
, I took a break and I wrote something else. It's a book that I've been working on for some 15 years by that point, it's called
*The Way Of Kings*
. It was something that I needed to do at that time. And now that I've finished
*Towers Of Midnight*
, I'm taking a short break and I'm writing something else. It's going to be much smaller, not an epic. It's just something to refresh myself for a couple of months before I go into
*A Memory Of Light*
. So yes and no. I have put a lot of things on hold, and that was kind of difficult, but at the same time the way that I am as a writer, I couldn't just work on one thing for three or four years straight. I had to stop and do side projects to keep me fresh. So you will occasionally see things, for instance
*The Way Of Kings*
, which is the start of a new series, my own massive epic so to speak. But you won't see the sequel for that until after
*A Memory Of Light*
is done, because I can't justify stopping long enough when this needs to be done.

