# [Interview #1184: Reddit: If you had a make-a-wish and for some reason chose Brandon Sanderson to answer one question, what would your question be?, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1184#5)

#### [cornballin (30 September 2014)](https://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/2hx31k/if_you_had_a_makeawish_and_for_some_reason_chose/ckwujti/)

Well, I think the obvious is: Which parts of the final book were your, and which were Jordan's?

Mine, personally, is why did Egwene not have to experience a fall?

All of the other characters have to confront and learn hard lessons about their own character faults. Except for Egwene.

#### [Brandon Sanderson (1 October 2014)](https://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/2hx31k/if_you_had_a_makeawish_and_for_some_reason_chose/ckx8wff/)

Let's see.... Isam in the Waste (prologue scene) RJ. Field of Merrilor: Mostly RJ. Epilogue: RJ except for one character.

I believe those are the three scenes actually written, or heavily outlined, by RJ. Many other scenes are mentioned in the notes, but were not outlined. (And many character fates are detailed, but the methodology is not given.)

Personally, I believe that Egwene learned her hard lessons earlier in the series. Her faults and flaws were made very manifest during her time with the Aiel, and I feel she learned the last bits during her captivity. She was the first of the characters to arrive at the place she needed to be.

Now, you may be annoyed that she was very Aes Sedai in where she arrived—but if, indeed, this is a flaw, it is endemic to the society of the White Tower and not Egwene as an individual. In the end, if she had one final issue, it had to do with the person she loved. That came to a resolution in this book.

#### [cornballin (1 October 2014)](https://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/2hx31k/if_you_had_a_makeawish_and_for_some_reason_chose/cky2xwr/)

Rand, Elayne, and Egwene have parallel character arcs. They are all thrust into leadership position long before they're ready. And initially they all make the same mistake: they try to be the leader that other people expect.

> Light, he tried so hard to be iron, to be what he thought the Dragon Reborn must

But then something happens for Elayne and Rand: they realize that they've been put in these positions for a reason, and that's to be themselves.

> How had becoming Queen made Elayne less high-and-mighty? Had he missed something? She actually seemed agreeable now!
>
> Lord Rand had come to him, making apologies. To him! Well, Hurin would do him proud. The Dragon Reborn did not need the forgiveness of a little thief-taker, but Hurin still felt as if the world had righted itself. Lord Rand was Lord Rand again.

Egwene ... doesn't ever learn that lesson that I can see.

#### [Brandon Sanderson (1 October 2014)](https://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/2hx31k/if_you_had_a_makeawish_and_for_some_reason_chose/cky5tv2/)

I see Egwene having something different. She pretends to be Aes Sedai before she is ready, the Wise Ones find out, and then she is beaten down before it gets too far. Rand and Elayne were, by that point, both in positions of power where nobody could really 'teach' them lessons, and so they had to learn later on—when the lesson had to be more dramatic.

Egwene had to learn during her apprentice days. Then, in a reversal from the other two, she is MADE a leader by the other Aes Sedai before she really wants to be. This is different from Rand's taking power or Elayne's being raised to power.

I see Egwene growing into the role she was given more easily because of early lessons mixed with being handed her throne and being left to rise to the occasion. She didn't become the person she THOUGHT she needed to be—she became the person the Aes Sedai as a whole thought she needed to be, even if some of them didn't want it of her.

This is my personal read on it as a fan, with only a little of the author mixed in. Not trying to argue, just explain why I think RJ felt her story arc was complete, at least in regards to this issue. (Egwene was the one that Robert Jordan finished the most work on of all the characters, and his notes indicated to me the sense that she was the farthest along.) Note that she DID still have a lesson to learn at the Field of Merrilor during her confrontation there with Rand and the arrival of the surprise guest.

Feel free to consider her to have not learned the lesson, and instead take another view on it. I think there is a rational argument that she never had to learn a lesson that she SHOULD have learned because of the way the Aes Sedai enabled her through their culture of leadership.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*