# [Interview #621, Entry #1]: WorldCon 2011 WoT Panel - Linda Taglieri](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=621#1)

#### Linda Taglieri

The Importance of Continuity

The panelists were: Lois McMaster Bujold, Eric Flint, Sharon Lee, Steve Miller, and Dean Wesley Smith.

First up were some comments about plotting: Lois said it is a good thing readers can't tell the difference between carefully planned plot and seized opportunities. She doesn't disabuse them. Dean doesn't outline beforehand because it bores him. He does summarize each chapter as he goes along to keep track. Leaving questions or the fates of characters unanswered (voids) can be useful, but the writer can also trip over them when readers ask insistently for more information.

Eric says he tends to be obsessive about plotting. Writing the novelization of a movie is very hard. Movies can rely on visuals to carry over deficiencies. He thinks the plot of
*Gladiator*
is drivel. Dean thinks the worst continuity is writing novelization of movie. Films can skip a scene but the book must have some reference to the skipped action, even if it is invented for the novelisation.

It is hard to get to know a character in a shared universe when the writer is just handed a few traits. All agreed it must be tough to complete someone else's series. The new author inevitably gets flamed on Amazon. Dean has finished many books when authors got sick and deadlines had to be met. He insists on being a ghost writer (his name not mentioned), and therefore didn't get hassled by readers and neither did the author.

I like this quote from Lois: "If Ideas come fast enough, (the writer) won't notice how stupid they are."

