# [Interview #724: WoT Production Tidbits - JD and Teresa Nielsen Hayden, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=724#3)

#### [Terez (@325)](http://www.tor.com/blogs/2012/02/the-wheel-of-time-re-read-the-gathering-storm-part-20#244328)

Kafmerchant@323—I admit your posts were glazing my eyes over as I'm not much of a collector, being broke all the time and whatnot. But that is an amazing bit of info about
*The Shadow Rising*
. I've always found the approach to be rather odd in comparison to the rest of the series. Not only is there no prologue, but the wind hangs around for quite a bit, and what he did at the beginning of Chapter 9 is pretty unique too. I'm going to put this whole conversation in the interview database, just for that tidbit. If you'd like to post reviews of each book one day, I would put them all in there. It's designed to be a database of all non-canon canon, so to speak, which is of course usually in the form of interviews, hence the name. But there are exceptions.

#### [KAFMERCHANT (@366)](http://www.tor.com/blogs/2012/02/the-wheel-of-time-re-read-the-gathering-storm-part-20#244535)

There are so many small but interesting things in my WoT collection that I'd really like to share with anyone who is interested (including books of course, but also have promo literature, and marketing materials such as posters, bookmarks, WoT "postcards" etc . The risk is that I'm seen as just showing off when my intent is far from it.

An example of promo literature is from a letter dated 15 Aug 1990 included with the
*Great Hunt*
galley, from Eleanor Lang (Tor publicist) that states that
*The Eye of the World*
"...was the first volume in The Wheel of Time, a six part series to be published by Tor Books." The print run for
*The Great Hunt*
is stated as 200,000 copies in this letter.

Just to clarify that the
*The Shadow Rising*
prologue in the advance uncorrected proof was called, "Seeds of Shadow" and started approximately halfway down the page and ended on the next page with just a single paragraph on that second page. The next (first) chapter was simply called "Seeds".

While searching for something tonight I've found some items that may be of interest to you—I assume you have copies of the audio of the Budapest interviews? Do you have the 2003 Toronto audio file? Also found a word file with a list of interviews starting with Starlog in 1991, followed by letters by Carolyn Fusinato and ending with blog posts/interviews somewhere in 2006 with lots in between (the word file is 2M in size)? I may also have a couple of old floppies, somewhere, with various old interviews and other miscellaneous files from the mid-late 90s although not sure if I can find anything that can read it...or if my memory of what may actually be on them is correct.

I'll keep the offer to post additional content in mind for the future.

I also found what I was looking for—a list, in excel, of chapter revision numbers and titles from the
*Path of Daggers*
manuscript—do you want this? And if so, where should I send it (gmail account)?

#### Footnote

This conversation continued in email. I will post new details as they become available to me.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*