# [Interview #83: Barnes and Noble Chat, Entry #10](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=83#10)

#### Neil Anderson from Bermuda

The Wheel of Time is the first series that I have been following where the development of the story line coincides with a vast amount of fan discussion on the World Wide Web and elsewhere. Given that you have stated you know how the story ends—all the major plotlines but not every single incident—do you ever find yourself taking into account the speculation about certain plotlines that occurs on some of the bulletin boards and newsgroups because it either requires clarification or suggests to you a better way of resolving some plot element?

#### Robert Jordan

No, I very seldom see any of the speculation. Occasionally someone will send me printouts of things that have been posted on the web sites. The last time I saw anything like that was about a year ago. I think three times I've been sent a copy of the FAQ, and while the comments in the FAQ have changed, at least in some places, I still have the same comment myself: About a third of the speculation there is right, about a third is almost right—it's sort of in the right direction, but they're not quite going in the direction I am—and the remaining third is totally blue sky. but I won't tell anybody which third is which. Read and find out... I know where it's going, and I really just don't take the time to get into the web sites.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*