# [Interview #229: KOD Signing Report - Shannan Lieb, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=229#2)

#### Shannan Lieb

Around 6:40, I spotted Harriet coming out from the back of the bookstore to look around. Because I had the extreme fortune to host her and her husband for segments of this past year's Dragon\*Con, I was really looking forward to saying hello, and took this opportunity to greet her.

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

She was so friendly and said she was happy to see me. I told her I'd really been looking forward to the signing, and had brought my parents to meet them both and have their books signed. Then she said, "Jim is in the back, would you like to come say hello?" I started to say that I didn't want to bother him, but then realized I was crazy and said, "Well, I'm not going to turn that down."

#### Robert Jordan

So she escorted me into the back room behind the cashiers to where RJ was signing books. We came in behind him, and she said "Jim, look who's here," to which he turned and said hello and asked how I was doing, and gave me a very warm welcome. I just stayed for a few minutes to let him know I was happy he'd come to Dayton for a signing, and was looking forward to introducing him to my parents because they were fans as well. He was busy signing books for some special requests of the book store, and so Harriet and I left and went back out into the store.

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

I walked with her for a little while, talking about how the tour had been going, and their plans while they were in town, and eventually we approached the stage where my mother was reserving our spot. I motioned for her to come join me, and introduced her to Harriet. We all chatted for a few more minutes, and then Harriet went to discuss the set up with the stage manager. I heard Harriet say "Will we have time for some Q&A before the signing?" and the manager reply "whatever he wants to do is fine." Harriet said, "Well I think he would like to do that first then."

#### Shannan Lieb

So Mom and I retreated back to our staked out location next to the stage, and waited for Mr. Jordan to come out. I was very happy that they'd both remembered me, and seemed happy to see me, and told Mom about getting to go "backstage." It was a great experience.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*