# [Interview #1026: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: The Wheel of Time Retrospective: Towers of Midnight: What I Learned, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1026#5)

#### Brandon Sanderson

***Towers of Midnight*
: What did I do wrong?**

I'm the culprit of numerous small mistakes, most of which there is no time to point out. The biggest flaw in my writing of
*Towers of Midnight*
, however, has to be the chronology.

All of my solo books have been basically chronological.
*Elantris*
had some funky storytelling where each group of three chapters happened concurrently, but most of my other books had a forward progression without much jumping back and forth in timeline for different characters.

The Wheel of Time, however, does jump around a lot—you just don't notice it, as Robert Jordan juggled the timelines quite well. Mat could be progressing at one rate, and when you jumped to Perrin, you'd jump forward or back in time. Those who wanted to look for the clues could find out and build a timeline using the phases of the moon or other hints. Those who didn't want to notice, however, were never thrown out by perceived incongruities.

When we split the books, some of the timeline things I'd done got too far out of sync. At the end of
*Knife of Dreams*
, the character viewpoints were somewhat out of sync, as Robert Jordan often wrote them. I didn't have any experience juggling something like this, and in
*Towers of Midnight*
I flubbed it. Not that the timeline is messed up—it's actually pretty good, all things considered. However, the perception of it brought us troubles. Because characters interacted across timelines, it felt like they were in two places at once (Tam is an example) even though it all worked narratively.

This made for some confusing moments for readers. Mr. Jordan did things like this without distracting; I didn't juggle this as well, and because of it, I think the book suffered. I hope I've grown better, but it was eye-opening for me when
*Towers of Midnight*
came out and people mentioned being confused. I hadn't even noticed the potential problem until the book was out.

*To be continued.*

