# [Interview #1044: Fantasy Faction Interview: Brandon Sanderson Stormlight Interview, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1044#5)

#### Question

I'm curious as to whether committing to a 10 book series ever feels daunting.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Good question. I would say no, it doesn't. The reason being that The Stormlight Archive, as I've said many times before, is this series that I have been planning for years and years and years and years and years. Twenty-plus years I've been wanting to do this book series. Having that, and having that desire to do this, means that the book series is this awesome thing in my head. Books get into my head, and they have to come out eventually. They bug my brain until they do. This one's been bugging my brain the longest. I don't think it's daunting, because it's not like I don't know what to do for ten books. I know what to do for ten books. These books have been screaming at me for decades to get written. It's more a relief that I can finally get them on the page, that I finally have the skill in order to accomplish it. It's a relief to finally be doing the ten-book series like this that I've wanted to do for so long. That said, at dinner tonight I was chatting with my assistants, and they said, so we're going to be working on this series until we're past age fifty, aren't we, Brandon? And I said yes, we are.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*