# [Interview #322: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Warbreaker 4.0 DONE!, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=322#1)

#### Brandon Sanderson

The latest
*Warbreaker*
revision is finished. I'm glad to have this one off my plate; I hadn't realized how anxious I was getting about this book until I sat down and worked on it. It's now been a year and a half since I finished it, and I worried that I was letting it dangle, pushing it off time and time again and not giving it the attention it deserves. This is partly due to the fact that I'm not sure if it will get a sequel anytime soon.

In the past, I've said that I was planning to write the sequel. (Tentatively titled
*Nightblood*
, though I worry that's too horror-sounding.) The problem is, I now have
*A Memory of Light*
on my plate, and it is going to need a LOT of attention. The question is, do I want to have
*Warbreaker*
come out in the spring of 2009,
*A Memory of Light*
come out in the fall of 2009, then have a sequel to a two-book series be my follow-up to that?

It seems to me that I'm in a unique position. A lot of fantasy authors dream of being able to launch something BIG. An epic series which will get a powerful marketing push and a lot of attention. It seems to make far more sense to me to launch a brand new series the year after
*A Memory of Light*
, rather than putting out an ambiguous sequel which ends a two-book series.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*