# [Interview #858: The Robert Jordan Story, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=858#2)

#### Narrator

Before the tale of Rand al'Thor, the epic story of the Wheel of Time humbly begins with a man named Jim, known to the world as Robert Jordan, author of the best-selling Wheel of Time series. James Oliver Rigney, Jr. was born October 17, 1948 in Charleston, South Carolina.

#### Harriet McDougal

Growing up, he'd often told about lining up I think Jules Verne, Mark Twain and Jack London, and thinking, "I want to write books."

#### Jason Denzel

He joined the Army in 1968 and served two tours in Vietnam as a helicopter gunner.

#### Harriet McDougal

He returned to begin college at The Citadel as a veteran student and took a job as a civilian nuclear engineer working for the United States Navy.

#### Jason Denzel

And it was during this time that he took a hard look at his life and decided to become a full-time writer.

#### Harriet McDougal

He was in the hospital with a blood clot when he did the famous—the thing so many people talk about doing—he
*threw*
a book across the room and said, "I can do better than that." He wrote something called
*Warriors of the Altaii*
. I read it, and...no, it wasn't what I was interested in. But it showed he could do it. So I gave him a contract for a book that became
*The Fallon Blood*
. We'd been seeing a lot of each other. He brought a tiger claw from Vietnam to show my son. Will came running upstairs to my office one day and said, "Mom, he'll take me to see the
*Star Trek*
movie." And I said, "Can I come too?" And he said yes. And I guess that was our first date.

#### Tom Doherty

She edited Jim, and they fell in love, and they got married, and we all became friends.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*