# [Interview #131: Leiden Signing Report - Aan'allein, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=131#6)

#### Question

You were very young when you came in contact with the great authors of fantasy...

#### Robert Jordan

Oh yes, I... Ah, I taught myself to read. Well, it was quite incidental. My older brother...ah, he would be stuck sometimes, when my parents couldn't get a babysitter, he would be stuck with looking after me. He found out that he could keep me quiet by reading to me. Mainly to keep me from flying his [balsa wood] airplanes or whatever and to keep my hands out of his fishtanks, that sort of thing. Ah, and he read to me. but of course he wasn't about to read children's books to me, so he read the books that he wanted to read. Uhm, I remember... I don't remember when I began making a connection between the marks on the paper and the sounds coming out of his mouth, but I do remember a day when I was four years old that... It must have been a weekend, because my parents came home on a day like... and he took off. He put the book back on the shelf, and I didn't want him to stop with the story, so I took the book back down, eh, it was Jack London's
*White Fang*
and I managed to break through it... Ah, I didn't manage to understand every word, but I managed to make my way through the rest of the book with enough understanding to be able to pick up on the story. So I eh, I did start reading quite early.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*