# [Interview #413: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: JordanCon and Releases, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=413#2)

#### Brandon Sanderson

And, in all the fervor, I forgot to mention that
*Mistborn: The Hero of Ages*
is coming out in paperback at the end of this month. I thought the date was May, but it looks like Amazon has it for April 28th. They've been known to be wrong before—rather frequently, actually—but I have no reason to doubt this number. So look for it in stores then.

Actually, we look like we're finally getting the support in B&N for my books. Their orders on
*Warbreaker*
are very large . . . intimidatingly so. As I've mentioned before, I'm paranoid about this book. Stand alone novels, no matter how good, have a larger chance of getting orphaned in the fantasy genre. Beyond that, we have yet to see what kind of impact giving the book away for free will have on the sales numbers. Anyway, it's coming early June. I'll be doing a release party and numbered copies, like on
*Hero of Ages*
. In fact, I think I've got the process far more streamlined, so there will be far less waiting in line this year. We're also hoping Sam Weller's will be able to do the mail-order numbered copies like they did before.

I'll have more news on this in the coming weeks, once I have a chance to take a few deep breaths after getting
*A Memory of Light*
One turned in for good.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*