# [Interview #753, Entry #26]: Gold Coast SupaNova - Eleanor Chandler-Temple](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=753#26)

#### Eleanor

So, to summarise:

Taim's palace is [or actually, the walls of the Black Tower are] made of Shayol Ghul stone and it's likely got properties that will have some effect beyond fulfilling prophecies. There's likely a Waygate near Lugard. We have clues on the \_\_\_\_. There will be a map in
*A Memory of Light*
giving the proper and exact location of the Field of Merrilor. We will have to keep on guessing at some of Rand and Moiraine's Aelfinn questions until the end of time, or until someone puts us out of our misery. There aren't any special requirements for touching the True Power other than the known ones (so no mandatory touching of Forsaken etc.) As stated in the books, the Salidar Aes Sedai team are still locked out of the Black Tower. Edorion is either fatherless (shush Felix) or we'll have to ask Maria. The Seanchan
*sul'dam*
issue will be addressed (does addressed mean solved or just mentioned?) in the book. I have no tact or ability at deception. We might just see Suffa/Elaida again. There is a possibility still that the remnant of the Shaido will be the remnant of a remnant (but how would he save them?) Bad things are in Bashere's future. Brandon has been influenced by the completion of WoT in areas of foreshadowing etc. At least one of the named characters is an unrevealed Darkfriend, and by his excitement, it's not some random foot soldier.

I've some images too.

On the first day, D and I arrived a bit late—the queue for people with tickets to get in when we got there would have been about 400-500m long, and it quickly spiralled on the grass outside (like a poorly-played game of Snake!) to somewhere in the vicinity of 700m. (That's 437-546 yards and 765 yards for you crazy people.) As the Weasley twins from Harry Potter, Wil Wheaton, Summer Glau, and "that dude from Twilight" Peter Facinelli (as well as Janet Fielding, Kylie Chan, Alan Dean Foster, and a few others) were all there, there were a lot more people than I had seen on prior attendance two years ago (Many, many Potter cosplayers, but surprisingly few Twihards, although we did have a few Twimoms). The next day we made sure we were there MORE than an hour early and so, whilst there more people, we got in fairly quickly.

The first day was Mistborn day for me; twitter followers would have seen me ranting about it during construction (I had no sewing machine), and D wore a Ta'veren Tee. The second day was WoT day—Aes Sedai and Warder. Yes...my photo is online. The second day we had to leave early as I have to be back up in Rockhampton (800km up the coast, 10h on trains) for work Monday. The first day's seminar as noted was for The Wheel of Time, the second day's seminar was on
*Warbreaker*
(of all things) but I was unable to attend that session due to my early leaving.

Question count: 22
  
Question source breakdown: 1 Terez, 1 Zommael, 1 Felix, 13 Lupusdeusest, 5 Forums (including one Luckers) (I've missed one somewhere?)
  
RAFO content: 4
  
RAFO by another name: 2
  
MAFO content:1

I think I've covered everything!

