# [Interview #1170: Shadows of Self - Lansing, MI, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1170#9)

#### Question

If a feruchemist charges a metalmind full of identity, and then someone awakens that metalmind, would its personality be that of the identity stored in it?

#### Brandon Sanderson

\*laughs aloud for a few seconds\* Wow. I haven't even revealed what storing identity does yet! Okay. When you awaken it, how are you doing it? A simple awakening? Or Nightblood awakening? Like, are you giving sentience as well?

#### Question

Sure.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Well, see, the stored identity would definitely mess with it, but it wouldn't ultimately be the same identity. It would definitely have an affect.

#### Blaze1616

\*to questioner\* I wonder if the Command would have a greater affect, or if it's simply because the metalmind is charged with investiture-

#### Brandon Sanderson

I haven't revealed what charging investiture does either.

#### Footnote

I think Brandon misunderstood me. I meant that because the metalmind was charged, the investiture would obfuscate the awakening, which we already know. I think he thought I meant the metalmind was charged with investiture, as in it's a nicrosilmind, which it can't be if it's charged with identity (or at least that shouldn't be possible). And for the record, this was asked by one of the lurkers mentioned, and I told him to join and participate, so if you were planning on posting this yourself, sorry to steal your thunder!

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*