# [Interview #541: Chat with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #11](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=541#11)

#### Semirhage666

How dare you kill me off! And with balefire no less! Explain yourself!

#### Brandon Sanderson

I'm sorry. I did what I did because I love you. ;)

#### SEMIRHAGE666

Will you do another signing tour thing this fall/winter?

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I WILL be doing a signing for
*Towers of Midnight*
in November. Right now, it's looking like New York, Texas, Charleston, Salt Lake, and maybe one or two other dates. And maybe Paris. (A con over there has invited me.)

#### HAMM

Semirhage asked the same thing I was hoping to ask, though I'll be more specific. Brandon, I'm not sure how much control you have over all the locations you do signings, but I'm interested to know if you'll be stopping off at Vroman's in Pasadena again this year for
*Towers of Midnight*
.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I probably will. But I love Mysterious Galaxy in San Diego so much that if I only have one day for touring in SoCal, I usually end up there. If I have a second day, it will be Vroman's. Maybe next year. Probably not for
*Towers of Midnight*
. (Sorry!)

#### HAMM

Oh lord. I'm going to have to drive from CA all the way to Salt Lake City huh?

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Well, if you want numbered copies...yes. But I WILL be in San Diego and San Francisco for the tour in September.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*