# [Interview #541: Chat with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #40](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=541#40)

#### Dana

When's the last time you signed books in the SLC airport? If I'm there at the end of July, will there be any there for me? :)

#### Brandon Sanderson

I signed some books in the Salt Lake airport just a few weeks ago, and will do so again when I fly out to Comicon. So there's a good chance! If you call the bookstore and have them order you in a
*The Gathering Storm*
, I could sign that. Last time I was there, they were out.

#### DANA

We <3 you, Brandon Sanderson! Now hurry and publish more books, lol!

#### HAMM

Send him a pack of magic cards. That seems to be inspirational!

#### MAGICKALMAN

I'll send him my Black Lotus if it'll help!

#### HAMM

My lotuses (or is lotus singular and plural?) got stolen when I was in high school. I brought decks with me to Vroman's last fall for the
*Gathering Storm*
signing, but there wasn't exactly an opportunity to play.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Lol. Dana, I'm REALLY trying to publish as many as possible. Magic cards do help, though... In a more serious tone, I do offer to let people read my older books. So if you're starved for something, you can shoot and email through the website and ask for
*White Sand*
or
*Aether of Night*
. They're not up to my current standards, but they're okay. And if you're really interested in the larger story happening behind the scenes in my books, those two novels are important. Watch for the Wells of Power in Aether of Night, for example. There will be an
*Elantris*
sequel some day. Hopefully. Wait, someone if offering a BLACK LOTUS. Drool. (But I probably wouldn't take it, in all honesty. That's a little TOO much.) The Amazon wish list alone makes me feel uncomfortable. Really, reading my books is enough.

#### MAGICKALMAN

I hope we can get some game on at DragonCon, I'll bring some cards and see.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I WILL play Magic at DragonCon. Planning to have plenty of time. I wish I could figure out a way to do a draft with fans while out for Comicon. That would be great. Remind me, Magical Man, about this chat when you see me. You too, Hamm.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*