# [Interview #541: Chat with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=541#9)

#### beckster45

What has been the most difficult part of finishing the WOT?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I'd say it's split between a couple of things. First: Keeping track of all of the characters. (Like remembering which Aes Sedai are with which main character, and which members of the Black Tower are which rank.) Got one of those wrong in the book, by the way. Second: Making sure everyone's voice (the characters) is correct. That's the most important thing, and I spent a lot of time on it.

#### MAGICKALMAN

Brandon, is the hardest part of writing the WoT keeping up with the 12,000 and some odd major and minor characters?

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

You got it exactly. That is TOUGH. Obviously, I can keep track of the mains. But those minor characters...It takes a LOT of work to make sure I'm getting them all.

#### MAGICKALMAN

It shows, I guess the best compliment I can give is that half way through
*The Gathering Storm*
I forgot that Jordan hadn't written it.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I take it as a great compliment when people say that, while reading
*The Gathering Storm*
, they forgot Mr. Jordan hadn't written it.

#### EAST COAST GIRL

I find it EXTREMELY humorous that there are at LEAST two separate charaters (maybe three I think) that have my given name or a variant thereof. :P

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

What is it?

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*