# [Interview #666: Alloy of Law Signing Report - Green Hoodie Mistborn, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=666#4)

#### Question

How does it feel to write the final piece to the Wheel of Time?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Umm, well, on one hand I can’t answer that because Robert Jordan did write the final piece himself (audience laughter), the last chapter he wrote before he passed away. On the other hand I can’t answer that because I haven’t finished my part yet (more audience laughter). I’m like so close, but there’s so much still left to do, but in it’s more general sense, I assume you’re asking, “How does it feel to be part of this thing that I’m writing the end of?” And it’s really be, kind of a bittersweet experience. Like, if you follow my tweets, on Twitter I posted a little while back that “Oh I was looking forward to being back to a certain character”, you know because I’d been away from them for a while, and then I stopped and realized, I wrote that character first for
*A Memory of Light*
, all the way through, beginning to end, and so they’re done. I will never be going back to that character, because that character’s story is told, and I’ve done that for almost everybody now in the book. There’s only a few characters who haven’t had their story told, so for a lot of the characters, it’s done. Which is really a weird experience for something you’ve been reading since, you know I picked up the first one in 1990, so 21 years of reading, and since 2007, so now four years of it kind of dominating my life, to have it actually being done, it’s really really kind of surreal and weird to have this being finished. But it’s a great honor also and it's awesome, but it’s also weird.

