# [Interview #427: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: What have I been up to?, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=427#2)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Though, oddly, I'm thinking I'm going to have to do another re-read of the entire WoT here pretty soon. It's been over a year since I finished the last read-through. (Whew. Hard to believe I've been at this a year and a half already.)

In a small bit of WoT news (and in answer to a lot of emails I've been getting) I've been lobbying to Harriet for the chance to keep
*A Memory of Light*
for the final volume of the WoT. If you don't remember the backstory, we were planning all three of these final books to collectively be known as
*A Memory of Light*
. Each would have the title
*A Memory of Light*
with a subtitle. (Gathering clouds for the first one, which became The Gathering Storm.) Well, now that we can't use this idea (for various reasons) and the first third is coming out as simply
*The Gathering Storm*
I want to use
*A Memory of Light*
for the final of the three. I think it's a beautiful title, and it is something that Mr. Jordan left for us.

Harriet seems agreeable, though nothing official has been set yet. Really, we need to get on the ball and choose a title for the second book. I'm working on that. (Though if you're passionate about the topic, you can feel free to email me.)

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*