# [Interview #915, Entry #4]: AMOL Signing Report - Deslya](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=915#4)

#### Question

First, how do you feel doing this, and finishing it? Is there going to be a followup?

#### Brandon Sanderson

It's hard to pin it down to one emotion; there were so many. RJ's books were among my favorites growing up, books I studied teaching myself how to write. In a lot of ways, it was just a deep honor. My favorite author, finishing his journey, and I got to walk along supporting him. That's how I regard it. It's been amazing. Me being the journeyman writer, being able to apprentice under RJ, in his workshop, looking at his things and taking them, working with them, polishing them, finishing the last sequence, has been incredible for me as an artist to gain an understanding of the writer that he was. For the second question, there will be no more. He'd planned to write two more prequels and then a trilogy of outriggers, but we can't do them. One reason is because he didn't leave enough notes about them. As I wrote these, I had specific direction in the notes and could relay everything back to RJ. In the outriggers, I wouldn't be able to do that. It would be more me than him. I don't think he would've wanted any more to be done, so out of respect for him, even though many would like to see these, I think we need to say "let's let it end where he wanted it to end". If we keep going, where do we stop? Do we want more 80 more Wheel of Time books? I think we're better off just saying "we know he wanted this done, let's end on a high note".

