# [Interview #783: JordanCon 2010 - blindillusion, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=783#1)

#### blindillusion

I'd like to start by saying I had a great time at J-Con, even if I only spent a few hours there. But I was with my family, and for the first time ever, a group of people who enjoy the Wheel of Time as much as I do. Needless to say, the MOA-ness was beyond measure:

I'll begin the recap by saying the hotel where the event was held was, well, wonderful. My wife enjoyed it immensely, especially as she didn't participate in the events and spent much of her time people gazing and looking at the flowers/waterfalls/'ponds' etc. Oh, and yet again I reconfirm my stance that whoever came up with the base design for parking garages needs to be dragged out of hell so I can ask 'Why?' before soundly punching him in the face.

And on to the event: I got there with about 30 minutes to spare in BWS's signing, which turned out to be fine as there were not many people in line. I brought two books,
*The Gathering Storm*
and
*The Hero of Ages*
. They got signed, of course, which was awesome (Finally, I have a signed book). And while I was standing in line I met Scissorrunner and J.Dauro. (I didn't get to spend much time speaking with them as when I wasn't in a discussion, I was with my family. Eh, them's the ropes, I suppose. It was great meeting you though.)

While my books were being signed I did take the opportunity to ask a question (and I only asked one as time was running down on the signing and there were people behind me):

