# [Interview #783: JordanCon 2010 - blindillusion, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=783#3)

#### blindillusion

Sorry it's not exactly great, but I kept looking out the doorway to see if my family was looking for me. Now, as for why that question? Well, as some of you may know, my pet theory is that in order for this to be the true Last Battle with the Dark One, Moridin has to be completely removed from the Pattern. So, I thought of about the only way I could ask about that without giving away my real purpose, hence the way I put the question. And I thought the first part of his answer very interesting. Nothing/no method of removing someone completely from the Pattern—currently. =) But when he called me back and answered about the Wolf Dream (
*Tel'aran'rhiod*
), well, I felt I'd asked a pretty good question that'll give some fuel for the fire of those looking for
*Tel'aran'rhiod*
to play a big role in Tarmon Gai'don.

Sure, it doesn't help or hurt my theory, but I thought if I'd actually thrown Moridin's name out there it would have been RAFO'd—though I would of gotten a nice red RAFO card.

After that, the next even I attended was the end of "It's the End of the World as We Know It", a discussion on
*The Gathering Storm*
. Really only heard two bits of information:

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*