# [Interview #362: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Back to AMoL!, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=362#1)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Warbreaker 6.0 is done! I worked on it a good ten hours today, and managed to push through to the ending. I'm too tired right now to post it, but I'll get it up early next week. The revision took a little longer than I would have wanted—almost three weeks—but it feels very good to have it done and off the plate.

That leaves only a couple of impending time-stealers from
*A Memory of Light*
. I'll need to do draft work on Alcatraz Three sometime in September, though that should be VERY quick. (It's one fifth the size of
*Warbreaker*
, and there is a lot less to do on it.) I'll also need to do the copyedit for
*Warbreaker*
; that should come sometime in November, and should take me about a week. Other than that, there are two convention visits (Worldcon and Dragon\*con) and the book tour in October that will be bumps in the road. However, I'm confident that I can get a good chunk more written before Worldcon even arrives.

Next on the plate is to do a couple solid drafts on the 25% of
*A Memory of Light*
which I've finished. I need to get it into a state that Harriet can look at and send it too her as soon as possible, as this chunk threatens to be the one that could need the most revisions. How well she thinks I did on these pages will be a very good barometer of how much draft work I'll have to do on the entire book once it's complete.

However, I do intend to divide my time between that revision and—occasionally—dipping into writing some new words. So the percentage bar should start moving again next week, if slowly at first while I spend a lot of time drafting.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*