# [Interview #824, Entry #3]: Dragonmount Interview with Teresa Patterson](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=824#3)

#### Bob Kluttz

Many Robert Jordan fans only know you as the other name on
*The World of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time*
. Could you tell us something about yourself?

#### Teresa Patterson

I have always wanted to be a writer, but I did not start selling my work until 1994 when I sold my first short story to an anthology edited by Christopher Stasheff. I have always been a fan of Fantasy and SF literature, art, and movies, attending, and eventually running SF conventions and art shows. I earned my Master Class rating as a costumer in only 3 years. Before becoming a writer, I worked as a show horse trainer and riding instructor, competing with Arabians, Quarter Horses, and event Horses. I also worked as an actress, musician, and movie extra. In those years I was also very active with the Society for Creative Anachronisms, the medieval historical recreation group. I used to love putting all my interests together by using my show horses in my jousting and battle show at the local Renaissance fair. Most of my Jousting team was composed of guys from the SCA who already knew how to use a sword and lance. I just had to teach them how to ride.

After becoming a writer, I continued to be involved in conventions and art shows, eventually becoming an officer in the Association of Science Fiction and Fantasy Artists. I served two terms as President of that organization, and in 2004 was awarded the Chesley Award for service. Even though it is an artists' organization, I spent a lot of time writing for, editing, and managing their publication, the "ASFA Quarterly".

When I'm not writing, I work as an artist of sorts. I build balloon sculptures to decorate major events and parties. While balloon sculptures hardly seem like normal art, it can be quite challenging. We have done work for several U.S. Presidents as well as major corporations, hotel chains, and international designers. Of course, unlike books that last for many years, balloon sculptures usually only last one day—or at most a week.

My current hobbies include scuba diving, Tai Chi, archery, and collecting edged weapons. I currently live in Texas with my roommate Morgana and an ever-changing family of cats and raccoons.

