# [Interview #824: Dragonmount Interview with Teresa Patterson, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=824#8)

#### Bob Kluttz

The big question for Robert Jordan fans: What's it like working with Robert Jordan? How did that experience compare to other collaborations?

#### Teresa Patterson

Robert Jordan is probably the finest world builder working in Fantasy today. His background in physics, history, and social dynamics combine to give him an appreciation of world dynamics that are currently unmatched in literature. For me, that made the job of documenting his world both challenging and intriguing. The bad part is that I did not get to create much to add to the universe—he had most things worked out and knew how he wanted them presented. I will admit that I had much more creative latitude with some of my other co-authors, but I had a larger canvas with Robert Jordan's universe. I also love history and discovered that we shared that as well as an appreciation of old weapons and military tactics. He has put a lot of thought into all the things that make Rand's world a complex place, so that everything has a history or a science to it, even if those details never appear in the books. Few authors go to that much trouble to create the background on which their characters perform. I spent a lot of time asking questions and listening to Jordan talk as he took me inside that universe.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*