# [Interview #498, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=498#9)

#### Luckers

[This one is somewhat more complex. It's from
[Matt from Theoryland's back and forth with Brandon](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=482)
, and I'll include the full transcripts, but I think the questions are a) Is the Wheel responsible for assigning Talents and Abilities, or are they linked to the soul like channeling? b) Would a person have the same Talents when they are reborn? c) Does the Wheel assign Talents to people it needs to?]

> Matt: Ok...which brings up the following questions about the Wheel and its relationship to souls, talents, abilities and channeling. Is the Wheel responsible for giving or weaving in Talents and Abilities to a particular life, or are they like channeling, attached to the soul?
>
> Brandon: That's an excellent question. I'm going to have to RAFO that...it's actually more of a MAFO. What your asking is would someone who is reborn into the Pattern have the same talents again?
>
> Matt: Right. Or does...the Wheel, we obviously know it is very capable of affecting the Pattern, so the question is does it give and take when it comes to abilities and talents it needs?
>
> Brandon: Yeah, right, I will have to MAFO that.
>
> Matt: Ok, so can the Wheel give an individual life the ability to channel, if the soul does not come to that life with an inborn ability to learn or a spark? Can the Wheel give them that?
>
> Brandon: Again, I will have to MAFO this whole thing. I will have to go and look. I don’t know if someone is necessarily always born with the ability to channel, if they are in every Age...
>
> Matt: ...there is a quote I brought that we asked at DragonCon, Jordan said: "I don't think I have said if you are born with the spark you would have the have the spark again. I have said if you were born with the ability to channel, to learn or with the spark, you will, when your soul is born again, you will have the ability again, whether with the spark or without...." So, in essence he said it's inherent you have the ability. Whether or not you Spark or you can learn it that depends on the life.
>
> Brandon: My instinct knowing how Jim wrote and knowing the parallels in the notes would be that he would parallel the other talents along the same lines. A wolf brother then would always have the ability to become a wolf brother and other things along those lines. I'm going off of instinct so that is an asterisked answer. I can MAFO that and look it up and we can see what we can find, but he did like to parallel a lot of these things...

#### Maria Simons

Jim says of Talents: "A Talent is a special ability with the One Power. While the name is used for other things, a Talent is, in truth, something which is inborn in the person and not something that can be learned." And there is mention of the Wheel throwing out what it needs on occasion, and there's the phrase, "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills." The Wheel can give and take as it needs.

I believe that the potential for a Talent is there, but it doesn't necessarily manifest each time a soul is born. If the Wheel needs the Talent, the Talent is there. But if the Wheel doesn't need it, it lies dormant.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*