# [Interview #134: Rotterdam Signing Report - Aan'allein, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=134#2)

#### Aan'allein

The first question was for both authors [Robert Jordan and Terry Pratchett] to give us some introduction, tell a bit about how they liked it in the Netherlands.

#### Robert Jordan

I must say it's a pleasure to be in the company of so many Discworld fans. [laughter]

#### Aan'allein

Basically this set the stage for the rest of the evening, with Jordan and Pratchett continuously outdoing each other with funny remarks, but also responding to each other and continuing line of thoughts where the other left off. The interaction between these two truly was great to behold. Even though Pratchett began by saying that it had been a long day for the both of them (there were apparently a lot more people in Den Bosch the same afternoon (the one occasion I couldn't attend) than anticipated), I hardly noticed it in them.

#### Terry Pratchett

Pratchett also told about the bad plane flight he'd had, in an airplane full of football fans. And how fantasy was considered less in the UK, because people wouldn't be enthusiastic about anything, except for football.

And that through careful purchasing you could wake up in a Manchester United bed, wear Manchester United pyjamas, and have a Manchester United alarm, and that this was perfectly acceptable, but that if you replaced Manchester United by Star Trek you'd suddenly be a freak.

Science fiction and fantasy fans are better than football fans because Star Trek fans don't get in huge fights with each other.

#### Robert Jordan

Well, that's not entirely true, I remember one occasion where a group of Klingons and a group of Romulans at one convention got into such a big fight that they'd actually needed to call the police to break them up. [laughter]

#### Terry Pratchett

Star Trek fans don't get into heated battle with Babylon 5...well, never mind that. [more laughter]

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*