# [Interview #134: Rotterdam Signing Report - Aan'allein, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=134#8)

#### Robert Jordan

Following very carefully, because the guy is apparently a very professional hacker, and for some reason the first six of my books, and the last the text are posted in English translation on this Russian site.

#### Pratchett

On a Russian site? [half-laughing...in a tone of uh-oh, no way to do anything about that.]

#### Robert Jordan

Yes, and I'm not the only one up there apparently, a lot of guys, and I mean, I've gone after, I've gotten shut down other sites, people who had been posting a translation in Russia and other places, what this guy is doing I don't know, except that I was cautioned to not visit the site myself, and it's not apparently as simply as saying 'stop this.' It would be quicker to get a contract with the Russia mafia. [laughter]

#### Aan'allein

This is of course (which books are up there proves it) the same site as was once posted here, which I mailed the Haydens about, thus making Jordan aware about this. Hmm, I wonder if I should mention that to Jordan. Would he even believe me? Could he perhaps be thankful enough to decide to change the way his world works so that a female Dragon would be possible? ;)

#### Robert Jordan

Jordan was very angry about such things and hackers in general. He'd like to have a virus that anyone who'd penetrate his firewall [so he really is online nowadays! not just sometimes when someone gives him a computer to take a test to see which gender he is, ;) but at home as well...and he knows the vocabulary] would get a package that would blow up his monitor for starters, to create a distraction so that the virus could continue to wipe out the hard disk and simultaneously cause power overloads to set fire to and fry every piece of electronic equipment that is attached to this computer. [laughter]

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*