# [Interview #768, Entry #5]: Brandon's Aon Descriptions](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=768#5)

#### Brandon Sanderson

#### [AON ENE](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/store/item/15/Aon-Ene-Pendant)

**Meaning**

Aon Ene represents wit, intelligence, and cleverness. In recent years, the Aon has also begun to be associated with prosperity and wealth as well. It was once a popular Aon for names, though recently it has fallen out of favor in this regard, and names using it are now considered a little old-fashioned.

The Aon has become a favored symbol of merchants, as cultural bias looked unfavorably on a shop using the symbol for gold or jewels. (Such symbols on a shop were seen as lavish or presumptuous by some.) Instead, many bankers instead use this Aon on their door to indicate their profession. The appropriation of the symbol is a reference to a quote from the appropriately named Enelan, a scholar who lived about a hundred years before the fall of Elantris: "No wealth of gold and silver can purchase a keen mind, but the man of wit will often find treasures beyond what mere lucre can provide."

More traditionally, the symbol was used—and still is used—as a representation of books and scholarly research. Indeed, many scholars, scribes, and illuminators have grown upset by the banking industry's tendency to use this Aon, as they see it as an appropriation of what they believe to be their own symbol. Part of the tension between the groups has made the Aon fall out of favor for names, though others—generally those who are more traditional—still favor it.

The shape of the Aon is said to represent two sides of an argument, interacting together in different ways. If one looks closely, one can see that there are, indeed, two halves that are simply the same set of symbols reversed.

