# [Interview #501: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Gemmell Nominations, Audible Tournament, Suvudu Cage Match + Updates, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=501#3)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Finally, Suvudu has been running a
[cage match](http://suvudu.com/cage-match)
for the last few weeks pitting fantasy characters against each other; the winners are selected by popular vote. Rand al'Thor has gotten past Locke Lamora, Conan the Barbarian, Roland Deschain, and Drizzt Do'Urden to make it to the final round against Jaime Lannister from George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire. Now, George posted over on his Not A Blog
[a scenario proposed by the Lannisters](http://grrm.livejournal.com/144572.html)
: that each combatant in the final round choose six companions to fight at his side:

> Jaime's six will all be characters from the worlds and stories of George R.R. Martin (that would be me); Rand is free to fill out his six with characters from the works of Robert Jordan AND Brandon Sanderson. (Yes, he can even include Conan, since Jordan wrote about him).

Not sure how that last would be possible, since Rand apparently already balefired Conan from the Pattern in the second round. I do wonder what restrictions there would be, since if Rand can choose anyone from Robert Jordan's works or my works, he would have several deities to choose from. (Of course, Jaime already defeated Cthulhu, so he's proven his mettle.) If you were picking six characters to fight at Rand's side, who would you choose?

I was going to say that I was fine with this scenario if it was cool with the folks at Suvudu, but it looks like David Pomerico has already posted his version of
[Rand's response to the challenge](http://suvudu.com/2010/04/cage-match-2010-a-response-from-rand-althor-to-jaime-lannisters-challenge.html)
, where he says he'll take on any number of Jaime's companions by himself. Now, Jaime's
[previous round](http://suvudu.com/2010/03/cage-match-2010-round-4-14-kvothe-versus-15-jaime-lannister.html)
against Kvothe from
*The Name of the Wind*
featured awesome writeups by both George and Pat Rothfuss on how they thought the fight should play out, and Jason at Dragonmount (among others) really wanted me to provide something similar for this round. EDIT—SEE BELOW—

(All, this originally said I wasn't going to do a writeup. When I dictated this post to Peter, he misunderstood what I said and wrote that I wasn't going to do a writeup. I'm totally planning to do one—I said I didn't know if I could do one like GRRM did, in-character, because I wasn't sure if it was appropriate. Rand doesn't belong to me, and I don't know if it would be right to do something from his eyes.

I AM however, planning to do a separate write up to talk about the match, maybe from my viewpoint. I'm not sure what I'll do yet, but I am planning to squeeze in the time to do it, despite my deadlines. Sorry for the mixup. I was kind of mumbling when I told Peter about this, as I was working on something else, and I guess he thought I said I wasn't going to do one at all. Back to the original post now.)

I look forward to seeing what George writes. The fans ultimately decide who comes out on top, so check
[Suvudu](http://suvudu.com/)
and start voting sometime tomorrow.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*