# [Interview #149: RJ: Letter to Fans on the Delay of COT, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=149#2)

#### Dragonmount

In addition, Robert Jordan himself filled us in on the reasons for the change in date:

#### Robert Jordan

I asked [Tor Books] to shift the book to January, a move we had discussed several months ago as a possibility. We have been working on a very tight schedule lately, with me hoping to finish the book by September 30, the positively absolute latest date which would allow for the original November 12 [publishing] date. I still don't know whether I will make September 30, and with Tor beginning to plan a November tour, I began to see the possibility of a huge explosion of disappointment if I was as much as a week late. That week would make it impossible to make November 12 and necessitate rescheduling the entire tour. Or more likely, canceling it, since there just wouldn't be time to reschedule. The only way to keep from getting ulcers over the situation was to reschedule the book, and that's what I told [Tor]. So, I am working away, and will finish as soon as I can. And maybe for once, my editor and I will have a little time to look over the book as a whole together instead of being forced to rely on the chapter-by-chapter as-I-hand-them-in sort of editing.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*