# [Interview #1117: Files that did not make the Companion #1, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1117#2)

#### Robert Jordan

AIEL EXPRESSIONS/LANGUAGE:

*Aan'allein*
: One Man, etc; Lan's name among the Aiel.

*algai'd'siswai*
: refers to those who carry the spears.

armcry, the: the cry rousing to fight or defend.

*Car'a'carn*
: Aiel title meaning "chief of chiefs;" referred to in Prophecy of Rhuidean.

Rhuarc speaks of death as "she."

Eyeless: Aiel name for Myrddraal.

"I ask leave to defend your roof and hold." A formal Aiel way of accepting hospitality.

"I have
*toh*
." A straightforward acknowledgment.

"I hear the wind." What has been said is foolish or stupid.

"I hear you." "I do not hear you."

"I see you." A greeting/acknowledgement.

"If you plan for the worst, all surprises are pleasant."

Leafblighter: a term for the Dark One.

Leafblighter's get: Aiel term for Trollocs.

Maiden handtalk.

"May I never know shade if...."

"May you find shade this morning (or day)." An Aiel greeting.

"May you always find water and shade."

"My water is yours;" an Aiel ways of saying thanks.

"My water is yours, and the shade of my septhold will welcome you."
  
More formal than simply "my water is yours," and more binding to obligation.

Nightrunner: Aiel name for Myrddraal.

"Remember me."

"Shade of my life." "Shade of my heart."

Shadoweyes: Aiel name for animal spies.

Shadowman: Aiel name for Myrddraal.

Shadowrunners: used by three Maidens to mean Darkfriends. Amys also used it.

Shadowsouled: Aiel name for Forsaken.

Shadowtwisted: Aiel name for Trollocs.

*siswai'aman*
: the Spear of the Dragon.

"Sleep well and wake." An Aiel way of saying goodnight.

"Some time again maybe, some day." Aiel way of saying never again when they don't want to say it right out.

"They/he hear(s) only the wind." They don't listen; don't see/hear what is important; a fool.

"to give a Maiden an interest gift." To do something reckless.

twitchskirt; flipskirt (Aiel): a flirt and a tease, maybe even an actual roundheels.

"Your honor is mine."

Wetlander.﻿

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*