# [Interview #937: AMOL Signing Report - talinthus, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=937#3)

#### talinthus

But that was all ephemera. In each town, fans ask the same questions, and Sanderson, with incredible class and a humble nature, answers as if it was the first time he'd ever been asked the question. In our conversation beforehand, we talked about how the signature was really irrelevant next to the chance to shake hands, to whisper thanks, to have the eye to eye link between creator and fan. That is what makes the wait worth it.

My real joy of the evening came in waiting in the line, folding the pages to offer to Brandon. Being able to be a fly on the wall of those meetings, those links between author and fan, was incredible. It was energizing and vibrant. Each time, Sanderson would take a book, shake a hand, and ask politely if there were any questions. Many people said "No, this book speaks for itself, but I just wanted to thank you for seeing it through." Of those questions asked, the overwhelming number asked about the Tinkers' Song, which I began to link to the Buddha's sense of enlightenment—If someone hands you enlightenment, it is not worth anything at all.

A young woman came up with a beaten and bruised Wheel of Time book and Mistborn hardback. She said that she loved these books, and it was incredibly difficult to find them in her village back in India. Another woman drove five hours to be here. Yet another stumbled in seeing the Memory Keeper shirts, because her boyfriend was a huge fan and had no idea the signing was happening.

A young man brought in copper etched plates with maps from Mistborn that he had made himself. Sanderson's jaw dropped then.

And through it all, Sanderson sat there, smiled, and signed. Every person was met with patience and pleasure, and allowed as much time as it took to say whatever was weighing on their heart. And Harriet, the quintessence of class.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*