# [Interview #603: JordanCon AMOL Status Report - Marie Curie, Entry #12](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=603#12)

#### Question

It may be a little early to ask about the encyclopedia, but at last year's DragonCon in closing panels, you all talked about it, you all gathered audience participation. Any comments on what the progress or what you all are looking at doing with this, as far as back history maps and whatnot?

#### Alan Romanczuk

Yeah, you know, we're progressing on it. We've decided on a format. We've decided on a lot of the things it's going to contain. It will be alphabetical. It will be very accessible. It will have a lot of things in it that you won't find anywhere else, including some of Jim's notes or selections from his notes. Because there's a lot that, not a lot, but there'll be some that is not possible to tell in the books, and Jim never intended to be in the books, but for his own knowledge of the characters and situations, he felt important to put down in writing. It could be a very large volume.

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

I think it will be. By its nature, actually, Alan, you said it would be out a year after the last book. We have a year after the last book is finished to finish the encyclopedia, for obvious reasons. You can't have an encyclopedia of the series without including all the stuff that should be in there from the final book. So it will probably be a year after delivery of the manuscript before we deliver that manuscript. It will be a little longer.

#### Question

Are you going to put in things like copies of Aludra's plans for the Dragons, or maybe a copy of Mat's letter to Elayne? Or even Moiraine's letter to Thom, all folded up and tear-stained?

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

Well, those are very interesting suggestions.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*