# [Interview #603: JordanCon AMOL Status Report - Marie Curie, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=603#3)

#### Marie Curie

(Brandon walked in at this point.)

#### Brandon Sanderson

I was just up doing Matt Hatch's Asmodean interview. Because he's doing a little documentary thing on the whole Asmodean deal. It's going to be very fun. And we were talking about the time where I actually misstepped and mentioned Asmodean's killer to him, and then worked it into a conversation by catching myself. It was really funny. I actually flubbed and said it to him, but I said it and then made it into a sentence that didn't give it away. I did one of those things, because it was after I had written
*Towers of Midnight*
and in my head it was already done and out there, but it was still months before it was released. And so, we were having a big conversation about Asmodean's killer and I said, "Well, such and such. . . .", and I'm like, crap, what did I just say? And then I worked it into a sentence, so I was really actually proud of myself at the end of that one.

#### Alan Romanczuk

But was it like, "Graendal killed Asmodean . . . . with this incredible joke"?

#### Brandon Sanderson

No, it wasn't that bad. But we were having a conversation about the theoretical killer, and I actually said, "Well, Graendal . . ." And then stopped for a second, and I said, ". . . is just a . . . bad choice because of this and this." If that makes sense. It was something like that. It was something like that, where I'm like, "Well, Graendal . . . is of course the favored choice," I think is exactly what I said, "but of course there's also these issues with it," or something like that. Anyway, I totally . . . I just about ruined it right then.

#### Terez

He wouldn't have told anybody.

#### Brandon Sanderson

No, Matt probably wouldn't have told anybody. Oh hey, hi! You are here!

#### Terez

Hi, Brandon. Of course I'm here.

#### Brandon Sanderson

I haven't seen you yet.

#### Terez

That's because I've been avoiding you.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Oh. Well.

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

That explains that.

#### Terez

I don't play Magic.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*