# [Interview #603, Entry #8]: JordanCon AMOL Status Report - Marie Curie](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=603#8)

#### Question

There's a lot of plot lines. Well, the pace of the books have changed a lot, immensely, from
*The Eye of the World*
all the way to what's going to come out in
*A Memory of Light*
. What are we going to expect in
*A Memory of Light*
? I know there's a lot of loose ends to tie up before it all finishes up. Are we going to expect it to be something very hectic? Is it going to be action packed the entire time, or is it going to be something less paced (?)?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I'm gonna RAFO that. Because that's talking too much about the core soul of what the book is. And honestly, you're going to have to decide that. I'm going to have to see what people think of it after I write it, if that makes sense. I don't think I can armchair decide if people are going to feel that this is . . . how people are going to feel this is. It's going to be a good book, and it will feel slightly different from
*Gathering Storm*
and slightly different from
*Towers of Midnight*
, just like each book in the series has felt slightly different than those before them.

There are a lot of loose ends to tie up, though Robert Jordan has in his notes specifically several to not tie up. He says, 'this does not get resolved'. And so those will not be resolved. He wanted the world to keep on living and breathing even after the series was done. We are tying up pretty much everything that he did not tell us not to tie up, if my double negative worked there. And so the pace is going to be fairly quick-paced is basically what I can say, but I don't want to say anything more than that.

