# [Interview #547: Grasping for the Wind Interview: Brandon Sanderson on Towers of Midnight, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=547#6)

#### John Ottinger

Are there any "Easter eggs" that the well-versed Wheel of Time reader might find contained in
*Towers of Midnight*
, and can you name at least one?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Oh boy. Well, one person's Easter egg is another person's very obvious thing. In Chapter One, "Apples First," in which a character from
*The Eye of the World*
shows up, I intended that to be more of an Easter egg and not tell people who that was. But Harriet asked for a big reminder near the end of the chapter of where the characters had met. So there are things like that, where characters return, but most of the time we have erred on the side of giving a little bit of an extra reminder of who these people are. If you look in Lan's plotline, several characters from
*New Spring*
make reappearances. The well-versed Wheel of Time reader is not even going to consider that an Easter egg, since it's going to be pretty obvious to them, but to other people I think it will be surprising. Will there be an Easter egg on the level of
*The Gathering Storm*
's reference to Plato? I'm sure that there are a few things like that embedded in there, as Robert Jordan always liked to embed references, but I can't think of any off the top of my head.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*