# Interview #1143: Shadows of Self-Newcastle

- Date: 2015-10-000000

- Location: Newcastle

- Links

-- [Shadows of Self-Newcastle](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/47354-shadows-of-self-tour-newcastle/#entry345354)

-- [Shadows of Self-Newcastle](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/47354-shadows-of-self-tour-newcastle/#entry345530)


## Entry #1

#### BlackYeti

In Words of Radiance, the Stormfather refers to himself as a Sliver, how is this the case when he is apparently a splinter?

#### Brandon Sanderson

(paraphrased) The stormfather is a cognitive shadow, but he doesn't know the correct terminology. Terms such as splinter and Sliver don't really apply to him.

#### Tags

Stormfather

## Entry #2

#### Bort

In Alloy of Law, it is claimed that Wayne once stole a horse which can belch in perfect pitch. Is it true? Did Wayne really steal a Returned, or otherwise invested, horse?

#### Brandon Sanderson

There may potentially, possibly, maybe have perhaps been something going on, but it is more likely that Wayne was pulling your leg.

#### Footnote

This was my disappointing answer. I do have to admit though, the reaction from Brandon was great. I confused the Braize out of him, and most of the audience too. He did ask if this was some crazy 17th Shard theory.

#### Tags

Wayne

## Entry #3

#### Bort

Did Shardplate always have gemstones, or were they added later, after the Recreance?

#### Brandon Sanderson

They were added, but maybe not just after the Recreance. (Further clarification, and Brandon stated that they were added to Shardplate about the same time that the discovery was made that adding a gemstone to a Shardblade would allow it to be bonded. I suspect that before that, the Plate was form locked, and couldn't adapt to it's wearer)

#### Tags

shardplate
,

gems

## Entry #4

#### Bort

Did Nazh retrieve Jasnah's belongings from the bottom of the sea by visiting Shadesmar, finding the correct beads, and moving them to land?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes, that would be the easiest way. Brandon also added Nazh spends a fair bit of time in Shadesmar, and that this would be the first thing he would think of when asked to retrieve Jasnah's stuff.

#### Tags

Nazh
,

Shadesmar
,

Jasnah's belongings


---

