# Interview #317: Robert Jordan's Blog: A note from Harriet

- Date: 2007-12-000000

- Type: Verbatim

- Links

-- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/blog/4/entry-388-a-note-from-harriet/)


## Entry #1

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

Dear everyone,

Brandon Sanderson came to see me for a couple of days this week, and he is as terrific as he sounds in the interview. I am really glad that things have worked out so that he can, and will, complete
*A Memory of Light*
. He will do a job that Jim would approve, I believe. And I'll be working with him throughout the writing. And so will Alan Romanczuk and Maria Simons, who have worked Jim through a number of books, and who are both now completely available for Brandon's support.

It is a great relief to have Brandon on board. This (choosing the writer to finish the series and getting the work launched) was the single thing I most wanted to do for my dear Jim. All the rest of the avalanche of stuff had to take a back seat—and there has been a lot that needs to be dealt with. So now I can deal with it—figuring out one colossal bad investment, dealing with the apparent collapse of the British literary agency (now apparently reconstituting itself), figuring out how to meet the payroll, all this mundane stuff. All will be OKAY, I hasten to tell you. It's just that it all needs to be dealt with, and that means TIME.

There is an e.e. cummings poem, I carry your heart, that you can google. [The poem is included below.] I did, and burst into tears. It tore my heart open and soothed it, too—because I do carry Jim's heart in my heart and I always will, until we meet again, which I hope and pray we will. When I said ONWARD I did not mean away from Jim. Not at all. I meant that we must always keep going, making, giving, loving, living, as best we can, through blizzard and desert. It is what we are called on to do. A friend wrote me at Jim's death, "the transition from love in the flesh to love remembered is endless and inconsolable" and oddly this was very comforting, because I believe it is true. It isn't the most important thing. The most important thing is to keep going, ONWARD, with his love, in his love. He loved you guys, too, you know, even if you never met him. How else could he have written these wonderful books?

So, hold him in your hearts and LIVE—it's what he wanted us all to do.

Greetings of the season to you all. And love. Harriet

i carry your heart with me(i carry it in
  
my heart)i am never without it(anywhere
  
i go you go,my dear; and whatever is done
  
by only me is your doing,my darling)
  
i fear
  
no fate(for you are my fate,my sweet)i want
  
no world(for beautiful you are my world,my true)
  
and it's you are whatever a moon has always meant
  
and whatever a sun will always sing is you

here is the deepest secret nobody knows
  
(here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud
  
and the sky of the sky of a tree called life;which grows
  
higher than the soul can hope or mind can hide)
  
and this is the wonder that's keeping the stars apart

i carry your heart(i carry it in my heart)

e e cummings

#### Tags

amyloidosis
,

harriet


---

