# Interview #42: LOC Signing Report - Justin Howell

- Date: 1994-10-000000

- Location: Santa Monica, CA

- Reporter: Justin Howell

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/bba02e5d5324ea40)


## Entry #1

#### Justin Howell

I received a few tidbits of wisdom from the Creator at the signing.

Specifically:

## Entry #2

#### Justin Howell

Where did Artur Hawkwing start out? (IIRC, John Novak suggested this question in a post after the Chicago signing).

#### Robert Jordan

Answer: None, but he said that one could figure it out given a careful reading of the books. Sounds like Tear to me (as Mr. Novak predicted).

#### Footnote

It was revealed in the BWB that Hawkwing is from Shandalle, which was located in the region that now covers eastern Andor.

#### Tags

hawkwing

## Entry #3

#### Robert Jordan

When I asked about the hemisphere of the Seanchan continent RJ said that it had parts in both the northern and southern hemispheres, but that Rand and Aviendha Traveled to a part in the southern hemisphere.

#### Tags

seanchan
,

errors
,

the fires of heaven
,

rand
,

aviendha
,

traveling

## Entry #4

#### Justin Howell

Tiny spoilers follow.

This should be enough space.

#### Robert Jordan

RJ said that there is no connection whatsoever between the
*gholam*
(Aginor's monster), and the Gho'hlem (a tribe of Trollocs).

#### Tags

gholam
,

trollocs
,

shadowspawn

## Entry #5

#### Robert Jordan

He also refused to state Beldeine's Ajah, saying something to the effect of "Wait and find out. It's not really very important, anyway."

#### Footnote

Beldeine is Green Ajah.

#### Tags

green ajah

## Entry #6

#### Justin Howell

That's all for my report.

Justin Howell


---

