# Interview #438: Tor-Forge Interview with Harriet McDougal and Brandon Sanderson

- Date: 2009-10-000000

- Type: Verbatim

- Reporter: Marie Curie

- Links

-- [Theoryland](http://www.theoryland.com/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=5966)


## Entry #1

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

I had not heard of Brandon until. . . it was the week of my husband's death. A friend was visiting. She put in front of me a print-out, and it was the eulogy for Robert Jordan that Brandon had posted on his web site. Brandon's eulogy was really beautiful, and very loving. And I thought, gosh, this guy. . . he knows what the series is all about.

And I got on the phone, called Tom Doherty and said, "Send me one of Sanderson's books." And he's a bit darker than Robert Jordan, but the series, as everyone knows, is heading towards Tarmon Gai'don, which is the battle with the Dark One that will decide the fate of the world. Tom said, "Okay, I'll go for that. We'll go for Brandon."

You made it clear that you would love to do this. And that was wonderful. That's what I needed to hear.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

The next thing was for me to fly to Charleston. Harriet drives me to her house. You know, I'm fanboying all of this. And you said, "Do you want some dinner?" And my response was, "No, I want the ending. I want the ending and I want to know who killed Asmodean."

And you're like, "Oh, all right. Well, here it is." And you handed me that, and kind of waved me into the den, I guess it is, or the sitting room. "Head over there, go ahead, go for it."

And so I was over there poring over the materials. And I flipped right to the ending and read because Robert Jordan had always said, "I have the ending in mind". And all the readers, all the fans had known this. And we’d listen to interviews and he'd been saying for years, "I know the ending. The last scene is in my head." And so I got to read that last scene before dinner.

Then I retreated to my cave, and crawled in.

#### HARRIET MCDOUGAL RIGNEY

Yes, he did. And put up a 'do not disturb' sign.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

And wrote furiously for a number of months.

#### HARRIET MCDOUGAL RIGNEY

This book had taken shape, particularly for Brandon. And he said in the conference call, "Look. Here's what we're gonna do." And it made perfect sense.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

The amount of material he left behind is what makes this book possible.

#### Tags

brandon on writing wot
,

harriet
,

the last scene
,

asmodean


---

