# Interview #879: AMOL Signing Report - Jonrox

- Date: 2013-01-000000

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Dayton, OH

- Reporter: Jonrox

- Links

-- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/topic/78442-reportdiscuss-q-and-a-and-interview-spoilers-here-full-spoilers/?p=2741448)


## Entry #1

#### Jonrox

My questions tonight in Dayton, Ohio:

## Entry #2

#### Jonrox

Who opened Cadsuane's box? (Jokingly) Is it intuitively obvious?

#### Brandon Sanderson

It's not intuitively obvious who opened the box. The weaves were removed from the box so that the person who opened the box could open it.

#### Tags

the gathering storm
,

cadsuane
,

domination band
,

unsolved mysteries

## Entry #3

#### Jonrox

Where was Roedran after the Field of Merrilor?

#### Brandon Sanderson

(Consternation on his face) He was goofing off somewhere.

#### Jonrox

And his army? They didn't do anything of note, eh?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Right.

#### Tags

a memory of light
,

tarmon gai'don
,

roedran
,

merrilor

## Entry #4

#### Jonrox

My take: looks like Shaidar Haran is most likely candidate for Cadsuane's box. I asked "who" and his answers didn't even identify it as a person (he didn't say "someone removed the weaves")

Also, looks like I was right about him forgetting about Roedran/Murandians after the Field of Merrilor.

I recorded the Q & A, but I haven't looked to see if it's of a quality worth uploading, since I wasn't aiming my phone at him or anything in particular. I might try to transcribe the session, though, unless the Memory Keeper posts first.


---

