# Interview #882: AMOL Signing Report - Nygmus

- Date: 2013-01-000000

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Dayton, OH

- Reporter: Nygmus

- Links

-- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/topic/78522-dayton-signing-report/?p=2746435)


## Entry #1

#### Nygmus

Couple of the questions asked that I can remember:

#### Harriet McDougal

I asked about the graphic novels, because I wasn't sure how far that project was going to go/how well-received it was for Harriet, but she seemed pleased enough with them. She said that there was a good team of people working on them and that they were working closely with Maria and Team Jordan.

#### Brandon Sanderson

(Brandon took a moment to point out that the bookstore also carried the graphic novels, and someone at the back found one on a shelf and held it up for demonstration.)

#### Tags

wot graphic novels
,

maria
,

team jordan

## Entry #2

#### Nygmus

The real standout question for me was someone who asked if there was anything that Brandon found difficult or uncomfortable to write.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Brandon talked about going into the outline, finding a couple things that made him go "Huh, that's interesting," (making specific mention of a certain conversation involving dresses and the color thereof), but the one that really stood out was "Oh, come on, you're going to make me write a spanking scene?"

#### Tags

brandon on writing wot
,

the gathering storm
,

semirhage
,

cadsuane
,

who wrote what?

## Entry #3

#### Nygmus

After the signing and Q&A, I only stayed long enough to stop off at a trivia group and play until I earned one of the bumper stickers. I took "
*Tai'shar Malkier*
!", which isn't quite as cool as "
*Tai'shar Manetheren*
!" would have been, but still good.

Brandon, as always, was a pleasure to speak to. Took a moment to chat with him while he signed my books about how much I appreciated his work.


---

