# [Interview #1004: AMOL Signing Report - craiye](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1004)

## Summary

- Date: 2013-02-01

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Salt Lake City, UT

- Reporter: craiye

### Links

- [Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/17qr6k/just_got_done_at_the_salt_lake_signing/c88dcbz)


## [Entry #1](./t-1004/1)

#### craiye

While Brandon was signing my book(s) I asked him about Alivia and if she had a role in the body swap. I assumed it was Nakomi but the others I was reading the book with all decided it HAD to be Alivia and that's how she fulfilled Min's viewing.

#### Brandon Sanderson (paraphrased)

Brandon confirmed that Alivia had NOTHING to do with the body swap but wouldn't go into it further.

#### TsorovanSaidin

Nothing is popping up man, but what did you ask? We had someone actually ask who killed Asmodean, literally THE ENTIRE CROWD booed this guy. Alivia helped him die by disappearing. It was quite anticlimactic.

#### craiye Huh, not sure why the spoiler isn't working right. Anyways, I was having a debate with the 5 other people I'd been reading with and felt like I was taking crazy pills—all the others thought Alivia is the one who found Rand outside Shayol Ghul after the battle and did the swap. I asked Brandon to confirm that it wasn't Alivia and was in fact Nakomi and he said he wouldn't answer anything about Nakomi, but vehemently denied Alivia had anything to do with the swap. TsorovanSaidin The body swap was a result of the crossed balefire stream. craiye Sure, it's clear that was what triggered the whole event but the end of *A Memory of Light* heavily implies that the woman outside Shayol Ghul finalized the deal. I'd assume that was Nakomi. Anyways, BS has made it clear he can't/won't answer any questions about Nakomi so I was just hoping for a solid confirmation that Alivia wasn't involved in anything at Shayol Ghul, and he confirmed that. That was good enough for me. TsorovanSaidin Ohhhh you're talking the old woman in the tent with Alivia? I'm almost positive it was Caddy and Alivia was referring to her as an old woman. You're talking about "The wise ones and the old woman with them" line correct? It's not Verin, we know that much. Nakomi, I'm convinced is no one, and everyone is just assuming there's something special about her. Though I found that old woman line suspicious. craiye Nah, I'm talking about the first page of the epilogue—892. The figure outside Shayol Ghul that says "Yes, that's good. That is what you need to do" as he brings Moridin's body out. For some reason a fair amount of people I've talked too (including the group I read with) thought that was Alivia, since it's suggested this person starts the body swap at that point (or finishes it I suppose). BS confirmed it was NOT Alivia though. I assume it's Nakomi. Who Nakomi actually is is an entirely different story.


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*