# Interview #1053: Outline: The Eye of the World

## Summary

- Date: 1984-01-000000

- Type: Verbatim

- Location: Charleston, SC

- Reporter: Joshua Minor

### Links

- [College of Charleston](http://cofc-01.wpengine.netdna-cdn.com/thetruesource/)


## Entry #1

#### Terez

UPDATE: There are some ongoing discussions about what is okay to post in this database and what isn't. For now, this is all we will post, and it may be that we will have to delete even that. We apologize for any confusion.

—

This outline is with RJ's papers in the special collections of Addlestone Library at the College of Charleston, donated by Harriet McDougal in 2012 and processed by archivist Joshua Minor. Most of the material in the collection—especially drafts, galleys, unpublished fiction, and inaccessible floppy discs—will never be included in this database. These items can be accessed at the library with the exception of some time-restricted files which will not be available for many years. This specific file is Mss 0197, box 4, folder 2. The date of 1984 is approximate; it was written somewhere between 1984 and 1988.

#### Robert Jordan

Eye of the World
  
[Part One]
  
NOTE: All names subject to change.
  
See End for NOTES.

FILE: OUTLINE1

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

Rand al'Thor is, he believes, the son of the widowed farmer and sheepherder, Tam al'Thor, with whom he lives outside a small village, Emond's Field. The village lies in an area bounded on the west by the Mountains of Mist, on the south by the White River [So called because it is full of rapids. Ii {
*sic*
} is also broad. In ancient tongue it was called, as still is to the east, Etheralell, waters of the Mountain Home] and on the north by the River Taren. [NOTE: The stream which flows away from Emond's Field, on which the mill stands below the village, is called the Winespring Water. It comes from a spring called Winespring (in the village, in the center of the village green, with a footbridge), the waters of which are so cool and sweet and refreshing as to be as intoxicating as wine.] These two rivers join about fifty miles east of Emond's Field. Emond's Field is isolated from the world, by custom as well as by geography, as are the neighboring villages. Few people leave the district, and fewer still of those return once gone. The area is called by locals Two Rivers, and contains four villages: Emond's Field, Roundhill, Parry Coomb, and Taren Ferry (the smallest).

## Entry #3

#### Robert Jordan

NOTE: Moiraine and Lan seem interested in the village and the area, and in all the gossip and talk of the area. They are both very interested in the rumors of the hooded riders, though they try to hide it.

## Entry #4

#### Robert Jordan

The story begins early in the morning, practically at first light, with Rand and Tam on their way to Emond's Field with two casks of Tam's pear brandy in their cart, and eight casks of his apple cider, good and hard after winter storing. These are to be delivered to the village tavern, for use during Spring Festival. Tam carries a spear and Rand his bow because there have been several recent attacks on men by wolves, bears and even boars. Rand sees a strange rider, seemingly a man in a hooded black cloak. He sees the rider at a distance, on the edge of some trees, but when he draws Tam's attention to him the rider has disappeared. Tam thinks it was imagination, but something about the figure disturbs Rand, a feel of ill intent and a sense that the rider was staring at
him.
.

## Entry #5

#### Robert Jordan

In Emond's Field we meet some of the village people. Nyneve Bayal, the Wisdom. Owyn al'Vere, the Mayor and tavernkeeper. Eguene, daughter of Owyn al'Vere and the girl Rand hopes to marry one day, though he isn't entirely sure how quickly he wants that day to come. Some of the village and farm boys with whom Rand is friends.

## Entry #6

#### Robert Jordan

The villages are all preparing for Spring Festival. The festive mood is occasionally somewhat forced, for all that the people of the district love any chance to have a feast or celebration or party, because there are indications that this Spring Festival may not be so joyous as is hoped. An unusually harsh winter hung on longer than anyone can remember happening before, and though it is two months into what should be Spring the air is still cold. The spring rains are late, foliage is slow appearing on the trees, and the winds out of the Mountains of Mist carry a chill as if they would rather carry snows. On the farms many of the spring lambs are still-born. Wolves, bears and even wild boars plague the region. Some say they have only been driven from the mountains by the harsh winter, but others pronounce ominously that it is as if they were bent on destroying all men between the rivers. Some have even come into the villages themselves, a thing unheard of. Too, there are rumors of strange, hooded men seen in the district, garbed in black, watching yet avoiding all contact with the people of the region, but these are largely ignored because it is believed they were begun by a sour old man who is always predicting disaster. Rand is, of course, among the few who do not dismiss this last. In any case, the village is determined, if almost grimly at times, to forget their troubles with the Festival.

## Entry #7

#### Robert Jordan

Everyone in Emond's Field is hoping that despite everything it will be a grand Festival this year. A gleeman [Thom Merilyn] has been brought in from Baerlan, and a peddler [Eward White, though he is somewhat reluctnt {
*sic*
} to give his surname], only the second of the new year, is in the village with a high-wheeled wagon pulled by four horses, a larger equippage [
*sic*
] than is usual.

## Entry #8

#### Robert Jordan

Also, there is an even greater oddity: travelers, a man and a woman. She goes veiled, and is dressed more richly (though not ornately) than anyone remembers seeing in Emond's Field before. He wears scale armor and carries a pair of swords (one long and one short), plus a third, longest of all, tied to his saddle. They arrive on the day of the beginning, causing great wonder, for the road from Emond's Field south leads only to Parry Coomb. They give no reason for their arrival, nor do they say how long they will stay. The woman's name is Moiraine, and the man is called Lan.

Nyneve is suspicious of them, but they offer to pay in gold, and that is reason enough in Owyn al'Vere's mind to allow them to stay. It is not that he is greedy, but few people come to rent rooms at the tavern. He sees no harm in them. He is a friendly man, always ready to see the best in anyone and often able to bring it out, even from those others thought had no good qualities at all. This is one of the reasons he was chosen Mayor.

## Entry #9

#### Robert Jordan

All of the boys are fascinated by the strange man, but there is some argument among them considering him. They have seen armed men before, guards for the grain and wool buyers, but there is something different about this man. Someone suggests he is one of the supposed hooded men, but this is quickly laughed aaside [
*sic*
], for only Rand among them believes in the men. Some think he is a Warder, but all of the stories (the only way that any of them knows of Warders) places [
*sic*
] these fabulous warriors in the Northern Blight, or occasionally one of the other Blights, where they battle strange and deadly beasts and the evil of the Dark One. Besides, this man's weapons and armor are plain and well worn, while the Warders in the stories always have arms and armor decorated with gold and jewels.

## Entry #10

#### Robert Jordan

One of the boys says his father says Warders are just stories for children, and the Blights and the Dark One are just tales to frighten fools. Some of the other boys begin to taunt this one. Rand feels a mounting anxiety, and some of the other boys seem to as well, but the first lad is finally taunted into actually saying Sha'tan's name. All of them, even the boy who said he didn't believe, feel a chill, as if things have gone further than they thought they would. Nyneve overhears the last part of this and is furious, reminding them that the Dark One can hear his name, that calling to him could bring him into the world again. Do they want to bring back the Time of Madness? The boys are all abashed.


---

