# [Interview #1003: AMOL Signing Report - TsorovanSaidin](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1003)

## Summary

- Date: 2013-02-01

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Salt Lake City, UT

- Reporter: TsorovanSaidin

### Links

- [Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/17qr6k/just_got_done_at_the_salt_lake_signing/?sort=old)


## [Entry #1](./t-1003/1)

#### TsorovanSaidin

Just got done at the Salt Lake signing!

My buddy and I drove 7 hours for this. I got the last question at the Q&A too! Brandon talked to us for a good five minutes, since my buddy and I were the only two to bring leather bounds in, being 2 of the only 125 made for the public, he was very impressed and took the time to make sure the personalizations were special. I wrote Lan's "I am just a man, that is all I have ever been." He liked that so he wrote it.

For my buddy he wrote in there "there are neither beginnings not endings to the turning of the Wheel of Time, but it was an ending."

He was really impressed that we both brought a leather bound. In my ToM I threw in "it's time to toss the dice." And he goes, "do you want it in Old Tongue?" I about freaked out. That man is a true fan. And in my hard backed AMoL I asked him to put the Androl quote I wrote in there, and he was happy to oblige. Needless to say it was a good night. They also had Wheel Of Time iPhone cases and I'm getting one of those.

## [Entry #2](./t-1003/2)

#### sleepinghour

Was anything new revealed during the Q&A?

#### TsorovanSaidin

Not really.

#### Brandon Sanderson (paraphrased)

He said Androl was strictly him, no sorta fan shout out. But as fans, we all sorta have those things we see as "should be" possible. And for Brandon, Androl was like playing Portal. That's why Androl came across as such a real character. Androl Is Brandon thrown into the world.

## [Entry #3](./t-1003/3)

#### TsorovanSaidin

The only other thing we asked him was about a certain lighting of a pipe.

#### Brandon Sanderson (paraphrased)

He said that he has no idea what the ending with Rand lightning the pipe truly meant. That was completely RJ. I asked him, based on my own theory, that what Rand did was a by product of him being almost a convergence of the Pattern. Since he wove with all three powers and wove the whole of the Age lace that he was now able to bend the Pattern and essentially "weave reality." Which would be more far helpful than the One Power. It may also explain why he's burnt out and not going crazy because of, he has a far better substation.

#### TsorovanSaidin

Pops! Forgot to add! Brandon said he doesn't know for sure but, that is close to his own theory. And they ARE releasing the complete encyclopedia on the series. He estimates by sometime next year.


---

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*