# [Interview #111: Brisbane Signing Report - Joel Gilmore](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=111)

## Summary

- Date: 1999-09-20

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Brisbane, QLD

- Reporter: Joel Gilmore

### Links

- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/8b9e9028447101d6)


## [Entry #1](./t-111/1)

#### Joel Gilmore

Ok, it's almost midnight, and I've got to get up in about 6 hours, so I'll keep this really short. Skip the next two paragraphs if you just want the questions.

Only one other person from the newsgroup was there, namely Willum, which I managed to recognise, and we got together with one of my other friends for a small Darkfriend Social afterwards. Anyway...

I did take a tape recorder, and taped the talk, though I didn't ask permission. And contrary to what I thought listening to it after we left (what you heard Willum) the tape is pretty good quality. He read the first bit of Book 8 (about the Ages come to pass and the wind etc) and that came out very well.

Ok, now the really important bit: the questions!!!

## [Entry #2](./t-111/2)

#### Joel Gilmore

#### Robert Jordan

Ok, first and foremost we have an answer to the balefire-balefire paradox. If A balefires B, then C balefires A, B WILL come back alive again. I explored this quite thoroughly with him, getting him to repeat himself more than once. It is definite. It is over.

## [Entry #3](./t-111/3)

#### Robert Jordan

The shimmering thing with Ishamael in the prologue of
*The Eye of the World*
was because of a True Power gateway!

## [Entry #4](./t-111/4)

#### Robert Jordan

The vanishing thing that Lanfear does at the end of book two is in fact her just walking out the door. Nothing more.

## [Entry #5](./t-111/5)

#### Robert Jordan

I asked about Ishamael's bit in the book 8 prologue, but got two RAFOs so we won't know whether it is set before hand, or (the first question I asked) if the nine mentioned were all Forsaken.

## [Entry #6](./t-111/6)

#### Robert Jordan

We found out his favourite authors. Yes, there is a cardgame on the way, similar to Magic: the Gathering. At least three more books...He's disappointed about our failure to find who killed Asmodean...A couple of other stories...There was a drunk guy there who kept interrupting and shouting (almost abusing) RJ (Aggghhh!!!)

## [Entry #7](./t-111/7)

#### Joel Gilmore

I forgot to ask about Rahvin, Rand and the fish, but I'm seeing him again tomorrow :) so I'll ask him then.

We stayed right till the end, and left with him, going down in the lift together and everything. I found him a really nice guy, and very friendly.

## [Entry #8](./t-111/8)

#### Robert Jordan

I re-asked the question about the Shadow controlling one of the Horn or the banner, and he said that the Heroes would have to follow the Horn (I think. I don't have this on tape, so...But he didn't say anything about a rift, which was what I'd heard someone say he said before?)

## [Entry #9](./t-111/9)

#### Joel Gilmore

Well, that's it for now. I'm off to bed, ready to see him tomorrow.

I'm going to try and get him to pronounce the names of the Forsaken (I got corrected on my Ishamael pronunciation!) and record them on the tape. Maybe a few other character names or things as well.

All right, good night all. I'll have a full transcript up as soon as I can.

Cheers, Joel.


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*