# [Interview #125: WH Signing Report - Brian](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=125)

## Summary

- Date: 2000-11-28

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Raleigh, NC

- Reporter: Brian

### Links

- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/alt.fan.robert-jordan/msg/e76232e8aa5407d2)


## [Entry #1](./t-125/1)

#### Brian

So Jordan comes out just before 7pm.

He walks to the edge of the platform where the table he is to be signing books is upon and starts talking. "It's Egwene" as he starts to run off a few names I am guessing people have hounded him about before. The one that got me was Aiel. Yeah the back of the books has the phonetic spelling but I always said 'Ale'.

Anyways, he signed two books for each person and then said if we were going to have any more signed, we would have to go back to the end of the line. Not too bad since he got through the line in an hour or so.

He was asked so many things that I thought I would just throw them all out before I forget.

## [Entry #2](./t-125/2)

#### Robert Jordan

If anyone tries to write in this world, I'll have to take him out at his kneecaps...I actually have it written in my will that anyone who does should in fact be taken out at his kneecaps.

## [Entry #3](./t-125/3)

#### Robert Jordan

L. Ron Hubbard (don't ask) couldn't have written those last few books. He may have had Alzheimer's but he would have to have that and to be drunk for them to be that bad.

## [Entry #4](./t-125/4)

#### Robert Jordan

He talked about where the book was at this week and said that this was the first time he went #1 on the
*USA Today*
book selling list.

## [Entry #5](./t-125/5)

#### Robert Jordan

Talked about Harry Potter... Said that he has the first three books and that they are "very good but could see how the children love them."

## [Entry #6](./t-125/6)

#### Robert Jordan

Talked about The Citadel and the workouts. Said that now for the long runs the cadets are allowed to wear sneakers but when he was there, they had to run in their combat boots. Said that it is because of the new women recruits—that they get shin splints running in the boots. Actually said "As big as I am, I once had to run a 15k in my combat boots."

## [Entry #7](./t-125/7)

#### Robert Jordan

He went on about other things but all in all, he was a nice guy who was down to earth. Actually made a joke about Anne Rice too. The owner of the book store thanked him and then thanked those that had come to the signing. Jordan said: "Well I usually don't get the type that want the books signed in their own blood. Or even come to the signing in a coffin... wait, that was Anne Rice herself."

His wife was seen wandering around the store but never came to the table.

—done rambling—

~B


---

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*