# [Interview #176: COT Signing Report - Réal Heppelle](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=176)

## Summary

- Date: 2003-01-27

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Toronto, ON

- Reporter: Réal Heppelle

### Links

- [Dragonmount](http://web.archive.org/web/20030208012957/www.dragonmount.com/Interviews/2003-01-27.aspx)


## [Entry #1](./t-176/1)

#### Jason Denzel

Thanks to Réal Heppelle for sending us this transcript and pictures. Audio is provided by Patrick Colaiezzi.

## [Entry #2](./t-176/2)

#### Réal Heppelle

I just came back from the Toronto signing. All the details from the other book signings are the same except that there was no Q & A from the crowd. We were told he would take questions but he arrived 15 minutes late.

#### Robert Jordan

He added that there would be a "hook" at the end of the series (which he had planned since 1984). This hook would lead readers to believe that there would be a sequel after WOT. However, he was quite clear that that would not happen. He stated that he hated getting to the end of a good book only to discover that everything comes to an end. He wanted to leave the end open so that there would be more "juice" left in his characters. He said that all major and minor plot lines would come to an end, but his characters' lives will continue.

## [Entry #3](./t-176/3)

#### Réal Heppelle

When I approached the table, he was very patient and polite in his response.

## [Entry #4](./t-176/4)

#### Réal Heppelle

I asked him why Egwene would want to change an iron chain into
*cuendillar*
(making sure that I pronounced it correctly CWAINDEEYAR :) I thought he would send me packing if I made a pronounciation mistake). I understood that the chain prevented enemy boats from entering Tar Valon, but I wasn't sure why she would want to make it indestructible.

#### Robert Jordan

He responded that iron doesn't TURN into
*cuendillar*
, iron is the base of
*cuendillar*
. He said that the links of the chain fuse together and become a solid piece. Thus making the chain impossible to raise, lower, or remove. This prevents boats from entering AND leaving Tar Valon. It then became obvious that this was a way for Egwene to successfully siege the island without using the One Power on anyone (as Lord Gareth wanted). I don't know why I didn't realize this on my own, but thought others might want the additional insight.

## [Entry #5](./t-176/5)

#### Réal Heppelle

I then spoke to Harriet (who was more than willing to speak with me). I just wanted to thank them for adding Toronto to the list (as we Canadians often get left out).

Great job on the site!

Réal Heppelle

## [Entry #6](./t-176/6)

#### Jason Denzel

DM Exclusive: Hear Robert Jordan speak!

Patrick Colaiezzi sent us this audio clip of Robert Jordan giving his speech at the Toronto Book signing. It is about 9 and a half minutes long and is available in two formats.

#### Footnote

The audio clip is no longer available online.


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*