# Interview #208: Robert Jordan's Blog: THE GASP MOMENT

## Summary

- Date: 2005-09-000000

### Links

- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/blog/4/entry-323-the-gasp-moment/)


## Entry #1

#### Robert Jordan

I just finished with a post to this blog, but I thought I'd make this separate, especially since I told Jason to go ahead and let you post comments to the blog. Not that I'll be answering your comments necessarily, but we may enter into a dialogue upon occasion.

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

No, I'm not going to reveal what the "gasp" moment is. I certainly won't be putting any spoilers here. But I have read the reviews, both spoiler and non-spoiler. For those who have read the book and believe you have identified the "gasp" moment, congratulations. For those who have read the book and still don't know what the "gasp" moment is, my sympathies. I mean that in all truth. You failed to see something that really should have made you gasp. I think I am fairly hardened, but occasionally something happens that makes me mutter, "Where are you, God? Are you sleeping? Are you blind?" This is fiction, but even so, I had to pause a couple of times in writing about it. Of course, I get deeply immersed in my work so that it becomes real to me while I am writing, but I hope to pull the reader into that level of realness, too. Either I failed completely in this instance, or some of you have become way too hardened. Too much on the evening news, I suppose. It's just today's hurricane, today's tsunami, today's Armageddon. I wonder what's coming up at eleven?

## Entry #3

#### Robert Jordan

On a lighter note, I understand that some of you are unhappy with the pronunciation of Taim's name.

Sorry, guys, but it is tah-EEM, not tame. Never tame. Not that one. In the same vein, Shaido is shah-EE-doh, not SHY-doh.

For a few others that I understand some folks have trouble with:

Siuan—swan.

Demandred—deh-MAN-drehd.

Seanchan—SHAWN-chan.

Seandar—SHAWN-dahr.

Moiraine—mwah-RAIN.

Mandragoran—man-drah-GORE-ahn.

Maybe I'll give you a few others another time.

#### Footnote

This pronunciation of Demandred contradicts the
[glossary](https://sites.google.com/site/hcfflibrary/glossary#forsaken)
.

## Entry #4

#### Robert Jordan

Take care, guys. And remember, if you can look at absolutely anything without at least a desire to weep, then you've lost part of your humanity.

RJ


---

