# [Interview #21: LOC Signing Report - Ryan Gran](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=21)

## Summary

- Date: 1994-10-17

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Atlanta, GA

- Reporter: Ryan Gran

### Links

- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/76ad8332dba54c03)


## [Entry #1](./t-21/1)

#### Ryan Gran

I arrived about 50 minutes early, and immediately proceeded to complete my collection of hardcovers. Got the last copy of
*The Eye of the World*
and although it's not first edition, it's autographed; along with the other five! The Tor representatives were handing out book marks and postcards with the cover art from
*The Fires of Heaven*
depicted on them. In any case, by arriving 40 minutes early, I was number 16, and it took about an hour to get to me. I saw numbers in the high 60s, so I'm not sure if RJ was going to make an effort to get through everyone or not. He took the time to answer questions from each person, signed the books "For first\_name, Best Wishes ... Robert Jordan" on the flip side of the page with edition information. He also signed maps and "The Wheel of Time" sampler, which SF&M was giving out.

I met up with the original FAQ creator (sorry, I didn't catch/remember your name, but I'm sure she's quite well known!) and I posed a couple of questions for her (she was in the high 50s and wasn't sure whether she'd get a chance). She was taking notes, so I'll let her post the "official" Q&A from tonight.

#### Footnote

The 'FAQ creator' that Ryan is referring to is Erica Sadun; her report from this signing is available
[here](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=24)
.

## [Entry #2](./t-21/2)

#### Robert Jordan

One thing I did catch, Robert Jordan claims to have enough notes to write books based on WoT for the rest of his life. That's not a quote, but he mentioned something to that effect.

## [Entry #3](./t-21/3)

#### Ryan Gran

One attendee (worked for a publishing company, used to work for Tor) had an advance reader edition of
*The Great Hunt*
—he'd never even opened it, was going to let RJ be the first. Also saw the leather bound editions of
*The Fires of Heaven*
and
*The Dragon Reborn*
—something like only 100 and 150 copies printed. They were asking around $200/each. My only problem with these books is that apparently they haven't done limited editions of the first three books (maybe they will?), but I couldn't justify the money for a partial limited edition series.

#### Footnote

Apparently Ryan meant he saw leather-bound editions of
*The Shadow Rising*
and
*The Fires of Heaven*
.


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*