# [Interview #213: Robert Jordan's Blog: YET ANOTHER, IT SEEMS](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=213)

## Summary

- Date: 2005-10-05

### Links

- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/blog/4/entry-329-yet-another-it-seems/)


## [Entry #1](./t-213/1)

#### Robert Jordan

If I seem to be posting a lot, it's because the tour is coming up. I want to get in some of these things before I go away and the blog goes on hiatus. We'll be flying to New York on Saturday to take care of some business before the tour begins, on Tuesday. I'm a little worried about the first signing, I'll admit. I know I can pull a good evening crowd in NYC; I've done it before. But 12:30 on a Tuesday? That's the slot where they put politicians, movies stars and celebrities. Yes, I'm a little concerned.

I will try to post again tomorrow or Friday, but I can't guarantee. We've been housing relatives from New Orleans, you see. My younger brother Reynolds has already gone back and begun teaching high school again, and his son Rey, a NO cop who was at the precinct they dubbed Fort Apache until he was told off to drive a sick officer to Shreveport for medical aid, has also returned to duty after fighting off bronchitis. Rey's wife Heather, who has a masters in disaster relief management, is hoping to head back today or tomorrow with infant son David, while Reynolds' wife Barbara Gay will be heading back tomorrow or the next day with son Jim III. Can you spell hectic? I knew that you could.

Well, let's get on with it. By the way, I don't favor women in my answers. I just answer what seem like interesting questions where answering won't give away too much.

## [Entry #2](./t-213/2)

#### Robert Jordan

For Flavius who is not Flavion, my apologies. Mea culpa, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa. Hey, it always worked with the vicar.

## [Entry #3](./t-213/3)

#### Robert Jordan

For Matrimoni Cauthon, Rand gets only the same benefits as he got from being bonded to one Aes Sedai. It neither multiplies nor divides. Each of a Green's Warders get the same amount of benefits as the single Warder of another sister.

## [Entry #4](./t-213/4)

#### Robert Jordan

For Child of Lir, peaches being poisonous in the world of tWoT is one of the things I did to make the world different. Though peach pits do contain small amounts of cyanide, which was once manufactured through processing peach pits. Several other fruits with pits, such as apricots, also have trace amounts of cyanide in the pits. And almonds may be the first genetically engineered plant since humans bred the deadly, to humans, cyanide levels out them to make them edible for people.

## [Entry #5](./t-213/5)

#### Robert Jordan

For Dracos, the Forsaken could not talk to one another, not even Balthamel and Aginor, who were trapped near the surface and at least intermittently conscious and aware what was happening in the world. You might say that being trapped where they were, in a Bore that existed everywhere at once, allowed them to see the whole world. But for the others, it was a deep and dreamless sleep. Even for Ishamael, except when he was spun out periodically. When thinking about the Forsaken, you might factor in the effects of dream deprivation.

## [Entry #6](./t-213/6)

#### Robert Jordan

For Comet Sedai, no, Slayer didn't kill Laura Palmer. But Lanfear can tie a cherry stem into a knot with her tongue. In fact, she can tie it into a square knot. Or a bowline. Or.... Well, the list goes on too long.

Yes, the Ayyad's eyes were popping, as well as those of
*damane*
in Seanchan.

Anyone who can channel, to however small a degree, is vulnerable to the circle of 13 trick.

## [Entry #7](./t-213/7)

#### Robert Jordan

For kcf, again, we have never met anyone who has the Talent of emulating the effects of a
*ta'veren*
over a small area.

I give my input on the design of the chapter icons whenever a new one seems needed, but Harriet actually decides where to place them, and I am happy to leave the job to her.

Yes, Ingtar was seen at the Darkfriend Social.

The Wheel creates
*ta'veren*
at need, making someone who is already alive one. You aren't born
*ta'veren*
. Can you imagine being around a
*ta'veren*
who is teething?

It would be possible for a Darkfriend or Forsaken to be made
*ta'veren*
, but it seems unlikely.
*Ta'veren*
are part of the Wheel's self-correcting mechanism. When the Pattern seems to be drifting too quickly, and especially if it is in the wrong direction, one or more
*ta'veren*
are created. I can't really see how making a Darkfriend or Forsaken
*ta'veren*
would help with correcting the drift of the Pattern.

*Ta'veren*
can oppose one another, when their conflict is what the Wheel "sees" as the necessary corrective. And, no,
*ta'veren*
is not Old Tongue for
*Deus ex machina*
. It came out of musings on luck, charismatic leaders, and the theory of the indispensable man.

Katerine escaped with the help of Darkfriends. Galina, who is much more closely watched by Wise Ones than Katerine was, would have little opportunity to use their help for an escape even if she wanted to, and she doesn't, not until she can get her hands on that rod. She'll put up with anything to get that.

Anyone who can channel, however weakly, can see the glow of
*saidar*
and feel someone channel. For
*sul'dam*
who have been
*sul'dam*
for a time, some begin to be able to see what might be called a ghostly image of the flows. Others convince themselves that this is, of course, only imagination and manage to give themselves a block.

Wow, you have a lot of questions. One more, and then I'm off to the next person.

Someone who sees
*ta'veren*
sees them as glowing. The more strongly
*ta'veren*
, the brighter the glow. This is a Talent, and is something that only someone who can channel can do. While she was stilled, Siuan could not see
*ta'veren*
, nor could she have if she had been burned out.

## [Entry #8](./t-213/8)

#### Robert Jordan

For Roland Arien, a lot of people have asked questions about Alric's death. I should have made matters plainer. As I envisioned it, Alric, having sensed Siuan's extreme shock, came running to her and arrived just in time to be stabbed just before Siuan was taken into the anteroom. She should have sensed the knife going in, but that was masked by her shock. When she sees him lying there, he is dying, though not yet dead. As I said, I should have made it plainer.

## [Entry #9](./t-213/9)

#### Robert Jordan

For ricktheinevitable, I have no plans to send Rand to Shara at present.

Oh, yes. I think of time in this world as fixed circular, but with a drifting variation. There are slight differences in the Pattern each time through so that if you thought of the Pattern as a tapestry and held up two successive weaves, you couldn't see any differences from a distance, only close up, but the more time turnings between tapestries, the more changes are apparent. But the basic Pattern always remains the same.

## [Entry #10](./t-213/10)

#### Robert Jordan

For Mark A, there are plenty of reasons for men and women to have a certain degree of distrust, though the fact that many Aes Sedai have Warders and good relationships with them shows that it isn't all mistrust. How much trust do most men and women have for the opposite gender here and now? I trust Harriet with my life, but look at how most people are. Look at most women's views of men, and most men's views of women. There is a lot of distrust right there. As for the Forsaken, they don't trust anybody. Gender doesn't enter into it.

## [Entry #11](./t-213/11)

#### Robert Jordan

Okay, not such a long post today, but it's getting late here. We're having venison tonight, and I need to pick out a good wine.

Take care, guys.

All my best,
  
RJ


---

