# [Interview #217: KOD Signing Report - Basri](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=217)

## Summary

- Date: 2005-10-13

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Cambridge, MA

- Reporter: Basri

### Links

- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/2f606283deb749b2)


## [Entry #1](./t-217/1)

#### Basri

I was there too, but didn't get to ask a question during the Q&A session.

I've never seen him without the hat and sunglasses before, so I guess he looked healthy.

## [Entry #2](./t-217/2)

#### Question

Someone else mentioned how they liked the way he writes political figures as self-interested people who truly believe they are doing whatever is right for the common good.

#### Robert Jordan

RJ agreed with this and said that that's what he believes the vast majority of politicians are like. There are of course some who are corrupt. He then told a story of a frightening meeting with a man (I forget the name) who was ex-KGB and connected to powerful Russian politicians and liked his books, who then asked RJ how he knows what he knows. A sweating RJ then told the man they first had to agree on what it is that he knows.

## [Entry #3](./t-217/3)

#### Basri

During the signing, I got to ask whether there exists a type of balance or opposite to the True Power the way there is with
*saidar*
and
*saidin*
.

#### Robert Jordan

He said no, and described how they are different, mostly stuff that is already known. The two sides of the One Power being different and from the Creator and keeping the Wheel turning and all that. He did mention that when a channeler uses a weave (either
*saidar*
or
*saidin*
) and releases the weave, the Power flows back into the available pool of
*saidar*
or
*saidin*
. It is never used up, and so it is like an infinite reservoir of Power. The True Power is not like this at all. The True Power comes from the Dark One of course.

#### Basri

I thought this was interesting. Did this imply that the amount of True Power is finite? Does it drain the Dark One to use the True Power? I didn't get to ask. Maybe there's a way to destroy the Dark One here?


---

