# [Interview #23: LOC Signing Report - Viren R. Shah](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=23)

## Summary

- Date: 1994-10-17

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Atlanta, GA

- Reporter: Viren R. Shah

### Links

- [WoT Wiki](http://wot.wikia.com/wiki/Atlanta_Loc_signing,_17_October_1994_-_report_by_Viren_R._Shah)


## [Entry #1](./t-23/1)

#### Viren R. Shah

I'm sure someone's gonna post the whole interview on here, but I caught about 8-10 minutes of it, and I'll try and write down the points I remember [I was kinda occupied at the moment, so my recollection might not be too good].

#### Robert Jordan

RJ feels that the Arthurian legend is very obvious in WoT, so he tried his level best to hide it.

## [Entry #2](./t-23/2)

#### Robert Jordan

As regards Randland being the future/part of our world, he made a reference to the game 'Chinese Whispers'. He said that, like in the game, the happenings of our time/age will be changed/twisted [my words] into Randland's myths, and similarly the occurrences in Randland will/have become our myths.

He also mentioned the fact that he tried to 'reverse-engineer' [his word] the current myths that we have into WoT's happenings/history, and our history into WoT's myths.

## [Entry #3](./t-23/3)

#### Robert Jordan

He said that he used legends from several sources including Arthurian, Celtic, Indian, North American Indian, Oriental, [and some others which I've forgotten].

## [Entry #4](./t-23/4)

#### Robert Jordan

There was also something mentioned about the songs that he used in the books—John Adcox asked him whether he had deliberately given the songs a Celtic slant. [I can't for the life of me remember the answer].

## [Entry #5](./t-23/5)

#### Robert Jordan

RJ refused to give hints about the next book.

RJ was also surprised that the books were as successful as they turned out to be.

## [Entry #6](./t-23/6)

#### Viren R. Shah

I'm sure that someone else in Atlanta [Erica?? Danny??] will have the interview recorded and will post it. Most of these points we already know from past interviews, so we didn't gain as much info as I'd have liked to hear.

Anything that I've gotten wrong is definitely 'cause of my recollection, not anything else.


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*