# [Interview #248: KOD Signing Report - Sodas](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=248)

## Summary

- Date: 2005-11-02

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: San Diego, CA

- Reporter: Sodas

### Links

- [Theoryland](http://theoryland.yuku.com/topic/9890/t/San-Diego-Signing.htm#.ToTU7r-4LqY)


## [Entry #1](./t-248/1)

#### Sodas

Well, the San Diego Signing went very smoothly. There were about 200 people there, all trying to cram into a small bookstore. Jordan looked very fit, but seemed tired. There was no Q&A session, and the store announced that they would be giving out numbers only to people who purchased books at the store that evening. Having already purchased mine, when the crowd moved outside, I was just behind all the numbered people (140 or so). The bookstore people rushed us through VERY quickly, as some people were saying Jordan had an early flight out in the morning.

## [Entry #2](./t-248/2)

#### Robert Jordan

While we waited in line, we could see Jordan signing books inside, but Jordan looked extremely tired. At one point when we finally made it inside the bookstore, he mentioned that the line just seemed to get bigger, not smaller. One thing that was very noticeable was that he was very somber, and didn't really crack many jokes (he didn't offer to punch anyone for mentioning Asmodean for instance).

## [Entry #3](./t-248/3)

#### Sodas

Unfortunately, this meant I would only get one question, so I must first apologize to those I had hoped to ask on their behalf. I had brought my list, but it just didn't work out.

With only one question to ask, I decided to go for the biggest question on my mind.

## [Entry #4](./t-248/4)

#### Sodas

Can you please expand upon what Mazrim Taim was up to in Andor prior to meeting Rand for the first time?

#### Robert Jordan

At that point, Jordan stopped writing. Not looking up, he donned a very visible smirk that was in great contast to the very somber look he had the whole evening. His answer was a very crisp "No."

#### Sodas

Thanking him, I decided to exit the bookstore. Due to the size of the bookstore, they would not let people back inside. So instead of waiting another hour for a doubtful few more questions, we decided that his answer was sufficient to know exactly what we wanted.

If you want my opinion, his look convinced me that Taim killed Asmodean. It was
*that*
startling.


---

