# [Interview #241: KOD Signing Report - Frenzy](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=241)

## Summary

- Date: 2005-10-28

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: San Jose, CA

- Reporter: Frenzy

### Links

- [Theoryland](http://theoryland.yuku.com/reply/201146/t/San-Jose-Signing.html#reply-201146)


## [Entry #1](./t-241/1)

#### Frenzy

Don't ask. I have weird friends. :p

Here are a few pictures from the signing. JWB got there early, so we got primo spots in line. We were singing along a bit when Jordan was reiterating some of the pronunciations and announcements he's said at other signings (and have been reported here and elsewhere).

#### Robert Jordan

He looked at us and said (paraphrased), "some of you have seen the websites."

## [Entry #2](./t-241/2)

#### Frenzy

Jason from Dragonmount was there, cool to meet him. He's gonna ask Jordan a question I didn't get to ask, I'll let you know how it goes.

## [Entry #3](./t-241/3)

#### Frenzy

But what I DID get to ask, was this: Can a person who hasn't actively channeled yet be severed or stilled?

#### Robert Jordan

Jordan's response (paraphrased) "No, you have to have something to take away something, so a person has to have an active connection to the Source to be able to have it cut."

#### Frenzy

Oh, the mayhem I can have with this little nugget.

small: This explains why the Reds haven't summarily tried to gentle every boy at birth or every man by 30.

big: If it takes an active link to the Source to slow, or to be stilled, then what about all those other attributes that
*sul'dam*
gain with use of the
*a'dam*
? Where do they come from? How did they get there?

bigger: Is it possible that those attributes are NOT directly linked to the Source? Could it be merely the exposure to the One Power that gives
*sul'dam*
that ability? What about a Warder? Could a same-sex non-channeling warder develop those attributes over time?

I need sleep now, I'll ponder this more later.


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*