# [Interview #25: LOC Signing Report - Erica Sadun](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=25)

## Summary

- Date: 1994-10-18

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Atlanta, GA

- Reporter: Erica Sadun

### Links

- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/0e29ae36d9249025)


## [Entry #1](./t-25/1)

#### Erica Sadun

No spoilers.

Oxford's setup did not encourage hanging around to listen to answers so we more or less hustled out of there and went to a bar for the social afterwards. No one drank $37 worth of beer.

## [Entry #2](./t-25/2)

#### Robert Jordan

Tam's sword: Given to him by the King of Illian. (Please ask for more details about this.)

## [Entry #3](./t-25/3)

#### Question

Did Bela kill Asmodean?

#### Robert Jordan

Read the book, chuckle chuckle.

## [Entry #4](./t-25/4)

#### Robert Jordan

Mat will lose his eye and Rand a hand: yes. (Did not ask right out. Instead, "Did you deliberately make Rand like Tew/Chew, the god of war who loses his hand?" (yes) "And Mat is like Odin who loses his eye..." (yup...but the Arthur parallels are spread around many characters. Merlin is Thom Merrilin, the Amyrlin Seat, Lan, etc...)

## [Entry #5](./t-25/5)

#### Question

When Morgase thought "two beautiful children", was she thinking of Gawyn and Elayne or Gawyn and Galad?

#### Robert Jordan

Read the book.

## [Entry #6](./t-25/6)

#### Question

Was the Verin "Moiraine sent me"/"I did not send her" incident a mistake or plot device?

#### Robert Jordan

(read the book) "Oh. A plot device..." (you guys think you know everything, don'tcha?)

## [Entry #7](./t-25/7)

#### Question

Is there organized religion in Randland?

#### Robert Jordan

(equivocating yes and no)

#### Footnote

For a more detailed answer on this, see the
[Budapest interview](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=183#7)
.

## [Entry #8](./t-25/8)

#### Erica Sadun

Did not get a chance to ask:

1. Why did Ishamael split in two at the end of
*The Dragon Reborn*
?
  
2. Who was Kari al'Thor? And what did it mean to be Second Captain in Illian?
  
3. Is Egwene the reincarnation of Eldrene of Manetheren? And is Eldrene's veil significant? Will you explore Egwene's understanding of the Old Tongue at all?
  
4. Was Lews Therin Beidomon?
  
5. What did your readers guess that you thought they'd never pick up on because you thought it was too subtle?
  
6. Why do some characters go in and out of the woodwork? Like Rand in
*The Dragon Reborn*
...
  
7. What made you choose to have a protagonist who will be going mad?

Please
*do*
identify yourself as a 'net Darkfriend. He seems to like us, be aware of us, etc. And Judy: "All is forgiven".


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*