# [Interview #266: Robert Jordan's Blog: A LITTLE MORE](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=266)

## Summary

- Date: 2006-04-22

- Type: Verbatim

### Links

- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/blog/4/entry-341-a-little-more/)


## [Entry #1](./t-266/1)

#### Robert Jordan

I received some additional acknowledgments from the Mayo of people who have sent money in honor of James O. Rigney, so here goes. My deepest thanks to Mr. Michael Nemeth, Mr. Ryan Tibbetts, Mr. Steven Odden and Mr. Spencer Martin. I really can't say how much this means to me.

One thing I should point out is that you won't receive an acknowledgement, and you won't get one either, not from me, if you send money in honor of Robert Jordan. Their patient is James O. Rigney, and they don't have a clue in the world who Robert Jordan is. Well, most don't.

Now, just a few tidbits, since there really isn't much happening here. I'm reading an old Tom Sharpe novel,
*Ancestral Vices*
, while waiting for a cousin to arrive for a visit, and the book is hilarious.

Now, then.

## [Entry #2](./t-266/2)

#### Robert Jordan

To Lynn, I'm sorry I missed you while you were here in Rochester. One of the nurses, Ken, told me that another SCT recipient was on the floor for a visit while I was getting my transplant, but not that you were a fan, or I'd have asked to see you. I'm sure they would have let you mask up and come in, if masking was even necessary at that point.

## [Entry #3](./t-266/3)

#### Robert Jordan

For Roxinos, you are exactly right. The correct phrase is
*Illegitimei non carborundum*
, and I can only blame inattention and a small keyboard on my laptop. Yes, I know that keyboards are so cheap I can buy one when I'm traveling and toss it when I head home, but it still makes one more thing to look after.

## [Entry #4](./t-266/4)

#### Robert Jordan

For NaClH2O, I like the idea of an Indian—my father rode one a long time back, and a fellow down the street has a magnificent red one—but I'm not sure Harriet would approve of a sidecar. I think she'll want her own bike. Lacquered in appropriate Wonder Woman colors and motif to suit her, I'd say.

I see that Deadsy is deep in discussion of my underwear again. Child, child.... Oh, well. A few words for your shell-like ear, Deadsy. Plain black or plain white, pure cotton or pure silk, but never red,or blue or any of those other suggestions. Those are for toyboys and pimps.

See you around, guys. And the last word for the day is, so far, so good. In fact, splendid.

RJ


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*