# [Interview #33: LOC Signing Report - Pam Korda](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=33)

## Summary

- Date: 1994-10-22

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Chicago, IL

- Reporter: Pam Korda

### Links

- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/57ef4adfa3dc6fc2)


## [Entry #1](./t-33/1)

#### Pam Korda

A few more tidbits:

## [Entry #2](./t-33/2)

#### David Wren Hardin

Did the Ajahs exist in the Age of Legends?

#### Robert Jordan

No, they were created a few hundred years in the aftermath of the Breaking.

#### Footnote

BWB 9:

> Almost nothing is known about the organization of Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends, but it is generally accepted that
> *ajah*
> played an important part, though apparently they were nothing like the present-day Ajah. In the surviving twenty-three consecutive pages of a dictionary from circa 50 AB,
> *ajah*
> , in the Old Tongue, is defined as “an informal and temporary group of people gathered together for a common purpose or goal, or by a common set of beliefs.” In thirty-one pages all in the same hand, located in the Royal Library in Cairhien, which appear to be random survivors of a larger manuscript reliably dated from the same period, the organization of Aes Sedai in the Age of Legends, or perhaps their manner of functioning, is described as “a vast sea of
> *ajah*
> (note: word deliberately left untranslated), all constantly shrinking, growing, dividing, combining, melting away only to be reborn in some new guise and begin the process once more.” In the first centuries after the Breaking, the nature of
> *ajah*
> or
> *Ajah*
> changed. We cannot be sure exactly when the change occurred, but another dictionary (circa 200 AB; 219 surviving random pages) defines
> *Ajah*
> as “a sisterhood of Aes Sedai,” and no lowercase form is listed.

## [Entry #3](./t-33/3)

#### David Wren Hardin

Was Tam involved in the Whitecloak/Illian war mentioned by Pedron Niall in
*Lord of Chaos*
?

#### Robert Jordan

That isn't something I'd given much consideration to (i.e., it is background, not significant). He probably was, since he was in the Illian army then. (i.e., Tam is NOT Jain Farstrider).

## [Entry #4](./t-33/4)

#### John Novak

John Novak asked what the Nine Horse Hitch was.

#### Robert Jordan

"You're too young for that." He then said something about whipped cream, butterflies, and ribbons, but I'm
*definitely*
too young for that.

## [Entry #5](./t-33/5)

#### Pam Korda

David's wife took a picture of David, John, me, and RJ. I suppose he'll upload it sometime.

John, Scot May, me, and my minions went for pizza afterwards.

Mrs. Robert Jordan liked my T-shirt.

Pam "not dead yet" Korda


---

