# Interview #378: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Annotation + Random Notes

## Summary

- Date: 2008-09-000000

- Type: Verbatim

### Links

- [brandonsanderson.com](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/blog/703/Annotation--Random-Notes)


## Entry #1

#### Brandon Sanderson

First off, I've posted a new
*Well of Ascension*
annotation:
[Chapter Forty-Four](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/annotation/236/Mistborn-2-Forty-Four)

Secondly, there's another website that is sponsoring a giveaway of my books, this one by the FantasyBookCritic blog. They're giving away an entire Mistborn trilogy set.

Thirdly, we've sold about 75 of the 100
[copies of Mistborn Two I have up for sale](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/store/item/23/Signed-Mistborn-Book-2%E2%80%94%E2%80%94Hardback)
. These probably won't last another week, so hurry up if you want one.

Fourthly, I received a nice email from some folks who have started up a Mistborn Fansite—the first one I know of. It's call Mistborn Empire. Thanks, guys! You flatter me.

## Entry #2

#### Brandon Sanderson

Fifthly, I've finished the revision of
*A Memory of Light*
Part One, which tops out at around 250,000 words. I then sent that chunk off to Harriet for review. A lot of you have emailed to ask me what she thought of what I'd written so far. Well, this is the first sizable chunk of writing she's seen on the book, so the honest truth is that I don't know yet! I'm nervous, as can be expected. It could be months before she gets back on those pages, though. 250k is a LOT of writing. In a lot of genres, that alone would be nearly three books worth of material. Here, it's just one portion of the novel.

Sixthly, that means it's time for me to zip on over and finish the two other edits I need to do this year. I warned you about these back in June. One is the
*Warbreaker*
Copyedit, the other is the
*Alcatraz*
Three final draft. I dove into
*Alcatraz*
last night, and the revision is going very quick and easy. I suspect that I'll be done with it by the end of the week, or early next week at the latest. The
*Warbreaker*
edit will take a tad longer, but I plan to be done with it by the
[time I leave on tour](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/blog/696/Hero-of-Ages-Book-Tour!)
. That leaves me with two and a half months to finish the other 150k of
*A Memory of Light*
and meet my goal of 400k by December. It's doable, but will be close, with the book tour distracting me. Keep an eye on the website to watch and see if I make it!

## Entry #3

#### Brandon Sanderson

Finally, I haven't posted one of these in a while, so here's an
*A Memory of Light*
relative progress list update!
*A Memory of Light*
has passed up
*Warbreaker*
,
*Winter's Heart*
, and
*Hero of Ages*
—and it's within one more percentage point of
*The Dragon Reborn*
. You can rest easy that, no matter what else happens, at least this won't be the shortest WoT book in the main series. :)

*A Memory of Light*
Relative Length Chart: 9/23/08

*Alcatraz/Evil Librarians*
60,400
  
*New Spring*
121,815
  
*Elantris*
202,765
  
*The Final Empire*
214,752
  
*The Path of Daggers*
226,687
  
*Warbreaker*
236,301
  
*Winter's Heart*
238,789
  
*Hero of Ages*
244,201
  
**—-
*A MEMORY OF LIGHT*
248k So Far!—-**
  
*The Dragon Reborn*
251,392
  
*The Well of Ascension*
252,739
  
*The Great Hunt*
267,078
  
*Crossroads of Twilight*
271,632
  
*A Crown of Swords*
295,028
  
*The Eye of the World*
305,902
  
*Knife of Dreams*
315,163
  
*The Fires of Heaven*
354,109
  
*Lord of Chaos*
389,264
  
*The Shadow Rising*
393,823


---

