# Interview #398: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: New Annotation + Reader Mail

## Summary

- Date: 2009-01-000000

- Type: Verbatim

### Links

- [brandonsanderson.com](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/blog/753/New-Annotation--Reader-Mail)


## Entry #1

#### Brandon Sanderson

New Annotation for you:
[*Mistborn: The Well of Ascension*
Chapter Fifty-Five](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/annotation/248/Mistborn-2-Chapter-Fifty-Five)
.

## Entry #2

#### Brandon Sanderson

And a little reader mail item. WoT reader Colby wrote me and asked:

> Just curious. When will you start releasing the names of some of the chapters of
> *A Memory of Light*
> ?

Well, Colby, I'm honestly not sure. These could get tweaked and edited right up until the book release, and so letting them out too early would be a mistake. I'm forbidden by contract on this project from posting anything specific like that on my blog. Beyond that, Harriet will be doing most of the actual chapter naming. She mentioned she'd done this on a lot of the previous novels, and so I'm happy to let her do it on this book. It will help give the book the right feel.

If anyone were going to release chapter titles ahead of time, it would be through Tor's website, not my own. The same goes for the prologue. In the past, it has been released early, and that might happen with this one too. But if it does, look toward Tor.com for the appearance. Sorry to be so clandestine on these issues, but it really is for the best. Everyone's excited about this book, but there are a LOT of readers who don't want anything spoiled. We have to respect their wishes, and the wishes of the Jordan Estate, which would prefer most of this be kept under wraps until later this year.


---

