# Interview #404: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: AMoL Update - kind of.

## Summary

- Date: 2009-03-000000

- Type: Verbatim

### Links

- [brandonsanderson.com](http://brandonsanderson.com/blog/764/AMoL-Updateandnbsp.andnbsp.andnbsp.-kind-of.)


## Entry #1

#### Brandon Sanderson

I've been getting a lot of reader mail like the following lately:
> Mr. Sanderson, I'm sorry if I am a little behind on the news, but I haven't heard anything about A Memory of Light and was wondering if it has already been finished and we're waiting for a release date or if it has already been released. Please let me know, I'm very eager to finish the series, thank you.

There's been a lot of buzz going around about the book lately, particularly since Tor released this widget which makes some implication about the release date of the book.

I asked Harriet if I should say anything about all of this, and her response to me was essentially "Keep on working. We'll worry about announcements."

So . . . well, I'm going to leave it to her and to Tor. Nothing official has been said yet, though I think that's probably because the best way to make WoT-related announcements is being discussed. JordanCon is coming up next month, and I think it's likely that Harriet and Tor would rather wait until then to make any big revelations.

Here's what I can say: I have not finished the complete manuscript. I've got about 450k words done of what I still plan to be an eventual 750k (or more) manuscript. I've spent most of January and all of February doing revisions. Harriet is pleased with what she has seen so far, but any manuscript needs a lot of work revising. Right now, we are focusing on making what we have done as good as it can be.

I will post here when official announcements are made. They'll probably appear first on Tor.com or Dragonmount. I wouldn't expect anything to appear until the first week in April at the earliest. (Third week, during JordanCon, being even more likely.)


---

