# [Interview #412: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Last Week for the WoT Fundraiser](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=412)

## Summary

- Date: 2009-04-06

- Type: Verbatim

### Links

- [brandonsanderson.com](http://brandonsanderson.com/blog/775/Last-Week-for-the-WoT-Fundraiser)


## [Entry #1](./t-412/1)

#### Brandon Sanderson

This is your last week for a chance at
[appearing in the final book of the Wheel of Time](http://charity.tarvalon.net/?page_id=2)
. The auctions end on the 10th of April, and it stands at $10,000 right now. If you were eying this chance, now's the time to make your bid.

Also, if you want to donate a smaller amount to get a shot at appearing in the last book, you have to donate by the 10th as well. We'll be drawing names at JordanCon next week. I'll need more than just the couple of names promised, and I'll be going to this list of donators when I need inspiration for names in the book. It's for a worthy cause. Please consider throwing twenty bucks or so at Heifer to help feed those who need it. (And note, for those who are vegetarian and don't feel comfortable donating to Heifer, contact Melissa at TarValon.net. I'll bet you could work something out, and I'll authorize donations to an alternate charity for those special cases. I respect your view, and while I don't subscribe to it, don't want to place you in a position of being excluded.) We've raised over $20k so far, mostly in small donations here and there. Frankly, I'm astounded at how well this has gone.

For those who don't like the idea of this fundraiser, remember that I promise not to post names of winners directly here on the blog. I'll always link to specifics so you can ignore it all if you like. I promise that it won't spoil the book. You'll have to know what to look for to even notice it.

Unless other arrangements are made, the appearances will all happen in book three of the three book split.

In an unrelated note, yes, I'm on Twitter now. (As some have noticed.) The tweets are mirrored to my Facebook status, however, so you can watch them either place. Find me on Twitter @BrandonSandrson.


---

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*