# [Interview #42: LOC Signing Report - Justin Howell](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=42)

## Summary

- Date: 1994-10-28

- Location: Santa Monica, CA

- Reporter: Justin Howell

### Links

- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/bba02e5d5324ea40)


## [Entry #1](./t-42/1)

#### Justin Howell

I received a few tidbits of wisdom from the Creator at the signing.

Specifically:

## [Entry #2](./t-42/2)

#### Justin Howell

Where did Artur Hawkwing start out? (IIRC, John Novak suggested this question in a post after the Chicago signing).

#### Robert Jordan

Answer: None, but he said that one could figure it out given a careful reading of the books. Sounds like Tear to me (as Mr. Novak predicted).

#### Footnote

It was revealed in the BWB that Hawkwing is from Shandalle, which was located in the region that now covers eastern Andor.

## [Entry #3](./t-42/3)

#### Robert Jordan

When I asked about the hemisphere of the Seanchan continent RJ said that it had parts in both the northern and southern hemispheres, but that Rand and Aviendha Traveled to a part in the southern hemisphere.

## [Entry #4](./t-42/4)

#### Justin Howell

Tiny spoilers follow.

This should be enough space.

#### Robert Jordan

RJ said that there is no connection whatsoever between the
*gholam*
(Aginor's monster), and the Gho'hlem (a tribe of Trollocs).

## [Entry #5](./t-42/5)

#### Robert Jordan

He also refused to state Beldeine's Ajah, saying something to the effect of "Wait and find out. It's not really very important, anyway."

#### Footnote

Beldeine is Green Ajah.

## [Entry #6](./t-42/6)

#### Justin Howell

That's all for my report.

Justin Howell


---

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*