# [Interview #442: Tor-Forge Interview with Team Jordan on The Gathering Storm](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=442)

## Summary

- Date: 2009-10-16

- Type: Verbatim

- Reporter: Marie Curie

### Links

- [Theoryland](http://www.theoryland.com/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=162386#poststop)


## [Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=442#1)

#### Maria Simons

In January of 1996 I went to work for Jim to answer fan mail. And the job just kept evolving and evolving, and I became what he called his right arm.

#### Alan Romanczuk

My name is Alan Romanczuk. I started working for Jim about eight years ago. I was brought on for continuity. By the time I came on, there were well over 1500 characters in the Wheel of Time world.

#### Maria Simons

I know what happened to whom and when. I can amaze people by remembering people's eye color and hair color. And if there's something we need to check happened, I can find it pretty quickly; pick up a book, flip to the page, and get it.

#### Alan Romanczuk

Developing timelines, coordinating action and characters. Measuring distances from one location in the world to another. All of that nitty gritty detail that has to be done, someone has to do it. This translated in his filing system to something I had never encountered before. He had what I could only describe as a maze-like hierarchical system of files.

#### Maria Simons

Brandon has been great. And he's got three of us that are emailing him, and we're doing this constantly, now for over a year.

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

Poor Brandon, who is an enormous gentleman as well as a very, very good writer. The material that Robert Jordan left begins with the outline for what will now be the final three books. Notes, some scenes, and more words in unpublished notes than have been published so far in the entire Wheel of Time.

#### Brandon Sanderson

And he left behind tapes, recordings, which were then dictated and transcribed and given to me, of him just talking about the last book and what he wanted to be in it. And the important events, and the important scenes, and all these things. All these materials were. . . you know, you've got a file here that's only got a few paragraphs in it, and a file here that's thirty pages long, and a file here, and a file here. Dozens of different files, just scattered all over the place, some about all these characters, and some about 'oh this scene needs to happen'. And then lots and lots and lots and lots of notes of how everybody ends up. The thing we have I think the most information on is, the two things: the world itself, everything in the world, all the characters. And then, how everything has to be. We know very specifically lots about how the world is going to end up.

#### Maria Simons

It picks up where
*Knife of Dreams*
left off. As for the rest, read and find out. I've always wanted to say it.

#### Alan Romanczuk

I think there's one thing we can safely say, though. The Last Battle is coming.


---

