# [Interview #445: Robert Jordan's Blog: A word from Harriet & Wilson](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=445)

## Summary

- Date: 2009-10-21

- Type: Verbatim

### Links

- [Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/blog/4/entry-396-a-word-from-harriet-wilson/)


## [Entry #1](./t-445/1)

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

On October 27, Book 12 of The Wheel of Time,
*The Gathering Storm*
, goes on sale nationally. Completed by Brandon Sanderson from notes and partials left by Robert Jordan, it is very good. I was its editor, as I was editor on ALL the Wheel books, and Maria Simons, Jordan's right hand for over 12 years, and Alan Romanczuk, Jordan's left hand (just because you can't have two right hands unless you are ... Shiva, is it?) have worked very closely with Brandon as well. We three—Harriet, Maria, and Alan—have really worked as Team Jordan on this book, and will do so on the following two, which will complete the Wheel. Book 13 will be titled
*Towers of Midnight*
, and Book 14 will be
*A Memory of Light*
.

Even Jordan couldn't have written everything he left in one volume, although he thought he could. But you recall that he thought he could write the entire Wheel in six volumes.

Try
*The Gathering Storm*
. I think you'll like it a lot. I do.

Best,
  
Harriet McDougal

## [Entry #2](./t-445/2)

#### Wilson Grooms

Update: Some additional comments from Wilson:

I was a Jordan fan before he was Jordan. The Warrior God was my childhood idol, the big brother I didn't have. Love is too weak a word to describe my feelings for Jim. I would do anything for him and would defend him with my life. That includes defending his work. Saying that, I could not be more pleased with the work done by Team Jordan: Harriet, Brandon, Maria and Alan.
*The Gathering Storm*
masterfully continues Jim's story in a manner that would be pleasing to the creator himself. There are countless "oh my!" moments. The pace is staggering. I fear that there will be many WOT fans who will lose sleep on the 27th because they just won't be able to find a stopping point.

I said before on this blog, that I loved Jim for bringing Harriet into my life. A grander lady there is not. Still what she has done in orchestrating and beautifully completing Jim's work has raised her stock even more. Love you sis. The Warrior Angel is surely smiling.

Congratulations to Team Jordan. Can't wait till next year.

Wilson
  
Brother/Cousin
4th of 3


---

