# [Interview #457: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Updates, Signed Hardbacks](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=457)

## Summary

- Date: 2009-11-03

### Links

- [BrandonSanderson.com](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/blog/842/Updates-Signed-Hardbacks)


## [Entry #1](./t-457/1)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Today I did twelve phone interviews with radio shows, which was quite an experience. I thought I'd only be doing four or so, but radioland had other ideas. The interview I enjoyed most was the one for the Louie b. Free show—I'd post a link, but their archives seem to be down. If they ever come back up I'll let you know.

Tomorrow I head to Washington D.C. for the next stop in my book tour for
*The Gathering Storm*
. If you're in the area, please drop by! For an idea of what my signings are like, check out the Storm Leader reports posted over at Dragonmount. There are also recordings of some of the live streams that have been set up at a few of the signings; you can check those out here. (Quality varies but at least you'll get the general idea.)

If I'm not coming anywhere near you or you've missed me at my previous stops, but you still want a signed copy of
*The Gathering Storm*
,
*Warbreaker*
, or
*Alcatraz*
3, I've put up a page explaining what booksellers you can get them from. Once the books have been out a year and it gets hard to find the hardbacks in stores, I'll be offering them here on the site alongside my older titles. Until then, please support your local bookseller.

## [Entry #2](./t-457/2)

#### Brandon Sanderson

You also may have noticed that I've put up a new item in the store—a holiday bundle of all three Mistborn hardbacks (signed) at a special price with the popular Steel Alphabet Medallion thrown in. And a note on shipping for the holiday season: to make sure a package arrives by December 24th, December 7th is the last day my assistant Becky can take orders with standard shipping. Orders upgraded to Priority shipping can be made as late as December 12th (the Mistborn bundle gets a free upgrade).

## [Entry #3](./t-457/3)

#### Brandon Sanderson

In the most recent Writing Excuses podcast, Dan, Howard, and I talk about how to write without plot twists. Give it a listen to see what I mean by that.


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*