# [Interview #49: LOC Signing Report - Matthew Hunter](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=49)

## Summary

- Date: 1994-10-30

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Cincinnati, OH

- Reporter: Matthew Hunter

### Links

- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/f543eaa368075232)


## [Entry #1](./t-49/1)

#### Matthew Hunter

The signing in Cincinnati was actually quite successful—very little crowd, which made me happy (lots of time to get to know The Creator) and him happy (150+ people showed up in Lexington the day or so before, which he said was draining). The hat and cane were there...

The bookstore was also passing out the poster-size maps to the first couple of people who showed up... I was late, and didn't get one, but they said they'd order one... :)

Here's what I got out of him:

## [Entry #2](./t-49/2)

#### Robert Jordan

He is aware of us, and the Bela discussion. We had a rather long convoluted discussion about Bela and the Darkfriend social, which seemed to leave everyone else clueless, when I identified myself as a net.jordanite...

We complain about the Sweet covers. He complains about the German covers. (Well, not much. But one in particular had a naked woman wearing pearls holding back an army with a wave of her hand (
*The Great Hunt*
) and "I had no idea where they got that one.")

You don't want to hear about his British agent.

## [Entry #3](./t-49/3)

#### Robert Jordan

He mentioned "Never trust anyone with power who isn't uncomfortable with it" as being related to Rand's leaving so many
*sa'angreal*
in safe places...

## [Entry #4](./t-49/4)

#### Robert Jordan

He mentioned
[*Hyperion*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperion_%28Simmons_novel%29)
... he loved the book until he read the ending. "There was no ending, no resolution." At that point, he threw the book across the room and never got around to reading
*Hyperion*
II.

## [Entry #5](./t-49/5)

#### Question

About Aes Sedai and their oaths:

#### Robert Jordan

"Rand is in control, one way or the other—depending on exact oaths, who was Black Ajah, and how willing they are to hold to those oaths."

#### MATTHEW HUNTER

Given that most were from Arafel, where they have 'strange ideas about honor', and the first clause in that sentence, I'd say that the non-Black Aes Sedai who swore will be inclined to support him (mostly) honestly.

## [Entry #6](./t-49/6)

#### Question

About skill comparisons between main character swordsmen:

#### Robert Jordan

"Read the book." About the forms used: I was curious, so I asked if he had studied the sword fighting arts or just researched. It's research, and the forms come from Japanese sword fighting and some European fencing, before
the advent of well-designed and well-made guns made swords obsolete. He mentioned one book in particular, but I can't remember the title... :(

## [Entry #7](./t-49/7)

#### Robert Jordan

Newsflash!

The covers aren't as bad as we thought they were. The 'extra' character in
*The Eye of the World*
really was in the book, but was cut out later, because he had too little to do. His parts were distributed out to the other
characters, but they never got around to cutting him from the cover.

## [Entry #8](./t-49/8)

#### Question

Physics/Math background and how it affected his writing:

#### Robert Jordan

—only marginally useful

—structure

—Schrödinger's Cat and other Quantum Physics stuff helps with conceptualization of fantasy structure.

—His editor (also his wife) said that the physics and math was more important than he gave it credit for. ;)

## [Entry #9](./t-49/9)

#### Robert Jordan

I asked if he had anything he wanted to pass on to the net as a whole, and he responded, "50% of the FAQ (pre-
*The Fires of Heaven*
) is wrong."

He wants a copy of the latest FAQ, which I presume can wait until we can incorporate the primary points from
*Lord of Chaos*
into it. PNH, can we send that through you or through some other medium?

He likes Mexican food and treats his driver well. ;)


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*