# [Interview #658: COT Signing Report - Daniel Adams](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=658)

## Summary

- Date: 2003-01-15

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Beechmont, OH

- Reporter: Daniel Adams

### Links

- [Dragonmount](http://web.archive.org/web/20030219160012/http://www.dragonmount.com/Interviews/2003-01-15_01.aspx)


## [Entry #1](./t-658/1)

#### Dragonmount

Editor's Note: Daniel Adams sent us this report of the Cincinnati, OH book signing. If you have pictures from this event or have more to add, please feel free to email us. Thanks!

## [Entry #2](./t-658/2)

#### Daniel Adams

Keep up the outstanding job you're doing on your website! I just wanted to drop you a quick note on RJ's booksigning tour, as of today (Jan 15th) he was in Cincinnati OH. He was here last night at a Borders Books, but I was unable to make it to that event. Instead I went to his Noon - 2:00PM appearance at the Kroger's store in Beechmont, along with probably 75 or so other fans.

## [Entry #3](./t-658/3)

#### Robert Jordan

He arrived shortly after Noon, and greeted us all, followed by the 'true pronunciations' the other stops received, and the announcement that pictures were fine, but if you were a guy, keep the clothes on. Because of the location (in aisle 14 next to the toys :), there wasn't room for much of an introduction, so he quickly sat down and began signing. Though I didn't hear the questions, he did spout a couple of his patented RAFO answers to some gentlemen in front of me. As the guy directly in front of me was having his book signed, I snapped a quick photo with my camera. Robert started ranting over people 'snapping shots of the top of my head!' It was all in good humor though. He wondered "what is it about the top of my head that people find so photogenic?" "I'm thinking of selling & bottling some of my hair, calling it Eau'd to Robert Jordan's head!" He said "I love having pictures taken, I'm a camera slut! You can take as many pictures as you want, as long as there are no bunny ears!" A very humorous guy!

## [Entry #4](./t-658/4)

#### Robert Jordan

I asked him if he thought he'd finish his series before George R.R. Martin's 'Song of Ice & Fire', and he said absolutely. He then mentioned a poll he had seen online where readers were asked which would happen first - Robert Jordan finishes the WOT series, George R.R. Martin would finish ASOIAF, Stephen King would finish the Dark Tower, or the Universe would be destroyed. D was winning by about 65% last he'd checked.

#### Footnote

RJ also told this story
[in 2001](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=651#4)
at Archon.

## [Entry #5](./t-658/5)

#### Daniel Adams

I had a couple more pictures taken (I'll send them in soon—forgot my digital camera) and then rushed back to the office. It was a brief visit, but I found him to be a very humorous & down to earth guy, a pleasure to talk to! If you haven't met him yet and his tour is coming to your town, you'd better be there!

Thanks RJ & Dragonmount.com!
  
Daniel Adams
  
Alexandria KY


---

