# [Interview #653: LOC Signing Report - Keith Casner](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=653)

## Summary

- Date: 1994-10-27

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Concord, CA

- Reporter: Keith Casner

### Links

- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/8f300260496379fc)


## [Entry #1](./t-653/1)

#### Keith Casner

Well, I went to the Concord signing today. There were about fifty people in line, and it moved very quickly. He was done by 2:45 I'd guess, then started signing 500 stock copies that Tower had lying around.

## [Entry #2](./t-653/2)

#### Keith Casner

On my turn, I asked him if he listened to music while he wrote.

#### Robert Jordan

He said yes, classical.

## [Entry #3](./t-653/3)

#### Robert Jordan

I told him Asmodean was my favorite character, and he said "Oh, I would have thought Semirhage."

#### KEITH CASNER

Yow! The Creator takes me for an inhumanly cruel guy on first sight—I need to change my image.

## [Entry #4](./t-653/4)

#### Keith Casner

He signed my copy of
*The Fires of Heaven*
To: Keith E. Casner, Nae'blis, Robert Jordan, so I won't be taking anymore backtalk from you lesser Chosen out there.

## [Entry #5](./t-653/5)

#### Robert Jordan

One guy got a picture with him, and RJ said, "As long as it doesn't involve any full frontal nudity—unless I'm holding the camera."

## [Entry #6](./t-653/6)

#### Keith Casner

Nobody showed up for the alleged Social afterwards. Perhaps some folk have forgoten their new Vows...

That's all I have. Pretty boring signing, really. Oh, I talked briefly about the Net with him, told him that we get more traffic than the main group.

#### Robert Jordan

He asked if I thought Bela was a Darkfriend, I said no, but
*ta'veren*
for sure. He explained all these references to the Tower lady sitting with him, but his wife didn't seem to be about.

#### KEITH CASNER

Keith E. Casner, Officially Designated Nae'blis, So There


---

