# Interview #659: KOD Signing Report - Domani Lass

## Summary

- Date: 2005-10-000000

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Cambridge, MA

- Reporter: Domani Lass

### Links

- [Atari](http://www.ataricommunity.com/forums/showthread.php?t=497802)


## Entry #1

#### Domani Lass

Hey guys, long time no chat.. been a few months since I posted and a few years since I was active. Anyways...totally back into it so maybe you'll see me around more/again.

Tonight I dropped in at the Coop for a signing by Robert Jordan and I was really surprised with how he totally didn't fit the perception I'd had of him. Amazing guy, he really was. Shook his hand, he spoke fantastically, just overwhelmed to have met the Creator.

A few things to note of interest:

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

Says there will be two more Prequels, as well as a few "outrigger" novels (not taking place in the main sequence of WoT events). He also has another series signed on with TOR already that isn't going to have any of the ideals (etc) of WoT.

## Entry #3

#### Domani Lass

Great story that he told, and I'll paraphrase since I wasn't smart enough to bring like a tape recorder or anything.

#### Robert Jordan

He goes to Russia and is introduced to an ex-KGB fellow who told Jordan that he thought of his novels not as a bible to politics, but a poetry to the explanation of politics. That was probably the best part of the night when he said that.. and of course it wouldn't come off nearly as good when I say it, lol.

## Entry #4

#### Domani Lass

I don't know if anyone else has or will be attending them, but if they're in or around your area I'd highly suggest going. This was my first, but it was wicked awesome.


---

