# [Interview #678: Milan Signing Reports](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=678)

## Summary

- Date: 2004-05-07

- Type: Translated

- Location: Milan, IT

- Reporter: Linda Taglieri

### Links

- [Theoryland](http://www.theoryland.com/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=172116#poststop)

- [Labarriera](http://www.labarriera.net/forum/index.php?showtopic=2023&view=findpost&p=49973)


## [Entry #1](./t-678/1)

#### kindra

According to Valeria Ciocci, who is the [Italian] translator, the next book should be out around November, but much depends on how fast the translation goes. However Fanucci's intentions are to publish two books every year, while Jordan has said that the series will include a total of 12 volumes. In addition there will be three prequels.

#### Robert Jordan

One is
*New Spring*
, which was published in reduced form in the book
*Legends*
2. Actually, Silverberg had asked Jordan to write a story for
*Legends*
, but Jordan wrote a novel. Since it was too long to be included in the anthology he shortened it considerably, and the result was what we were able to read even in Italy. When Jordan's American publisher learned of this story, he asked Jordan if he couldn’t expand it into a novel.

One of the other two prequels (Jordan said he will write them only after he has finished narrating the events in the saga) covers Tam al'Thor and his decision to leave the army to retire to the Two Rivers. The other, I don’t remember.

## [Entry #2](./t-678/2)

#### kindra

At the Milan meeting, Jordan has been extremely accessible, if it were not for us he would be gone ... since in the evening he had another commitment, and we showed up late.

#### Robert Jordan

Among other things Jordan said that in each of the female characters in the saga there appears some aspect of his wife's character, but what that is he is not going to reveal! He then recalled that in the past he has had health problems and that at a convention his fans in the United States threatened him that if he died before finishing the saga they were going to desecrate his grave! Among the authors he reads and appreciates are George Martin, Terry Pratchett, Katherine Kerr and Guy Gavriel Kay. (Of these, the only one I have not read anything of is Pratchett, but I have to say that he has good taste!)

## [Entry #3](./t-678/3)

#### mko

#### Robert Jordan

The third prequel would tell the story of how Lan and Moraine reach the Two Rivers and find the three
*ta’veren*
.

Also at Turin Jordan said that he has serious health problems .... if I remember correctly he was involved in a traffic accident and had a narrow escape (and this is why he now walks with a cane).

In addition, our Jordan also fought in Vietnam.

## [Entry #4](./t-678/4)

#### Dany Snow R.

#### Robert Jordan

Regarding the prequels, there are three:

1) The meeting between Lan and Moiraine, if I remember correctly
  
2) Tam al'Thor, his military career and his return to Emond's Field
  
3) The travels of Lan and Moraine to Emond's Field before the start of
*The Eye of the World*


---

