# [Interview #681: Jordan confirms 3 new novellas!](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=681)

## Summary

- Date: 2002-05-18

- Type: Verbatim

### Links

- [Dragonmount](http://web.archive.org/web/20020622115844/http://www.dragonmount.com/News/News-2002-05.aspx)


## [Entry #1](./t-681/1)

#### Jason Denzel

Robert Jordan told us today that there are indeed three new "short" novels in the works and that, yes, they are indeed based on what we thought they would be. Read the full transcript of his letter here:

## [Entry #2](./t-681/2)

#### Robert Jordan

The idea for the "short" novels came about because of a comment I made to Tom Doherty concerning the writing of
*New Spring*
. I almost always find that my initial plans for what to put into a story are too ambitious, and if I had followed the initial guidelines I set up for
*New Spring*
, it would have been somewhere between half again and twice as long, much too long to have fit
*Legends*
. Very early in the writing, I decided to cut down some of the storylines and alter others to make them shorter. Tom's idea was that I should, in effect, restore the cuts, though it will be more complex than that because I never wrote them in the first place. I had long ago promised Tom that I would do another novella-length or longer story, and it was when he reminded me of that that this came up.

*New Spring*
, of course, concerns events around the time of the birth of Rand al'Thor, with the "program" launched by the Black Ajah against men who might be able to channel (and the resulting deaths of many senior Aes Sedai, which in turn led to many Aes Sedai reaching positions of authority at younger ages that normally would have been expected) in the background, and the whole wrapped around the first meetings of Lan and Moiraine and the revelations of how someone as junior as Moiraine became part of the search for the Dragon Reborn and why Lan gave up his personal war against the Blight to become Moiraine's Warder. The framework of the other two stories I have in mind center around, first, Tam finding the infant and how and why a man who had risen to a position of some authority and responsibility as a soldier in the elite Companions threw that over to return to his childhood home and become a farmer, and second, around how and why Moiraine and Lan reached the Two Rivers just at the point that the Shadow's search for the young man who would become the Dragon Reborn had also focused in on the Two Rivers. There are some clues to events in those time frames in the larger books, though certainly not indications of everything that will be in those stories. That is, somebody might be able to pick up a few clues by close reading and study, but not the whole picture.

These three short novels will be spaced out between the larger novels, with (knock wood) the revised
*New Spring*
coming out some time late next year.

## [Entry #3](./t-681/3)

#### Jason Denzel

So there it is folks! Read the news below and you'll see we called it!


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*