# [Interview #699: Vericon Report - Puck](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=699)

## Summary

- Date: 2011-03-19

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Cambridge, MA

- Reporter: Puck

### Links

- [17th Shard](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/420-report-vericon/page__p__6435__hl__vericon__fromsearch__1#entry6435)


## [Entry #1](./t-699/1)

#### Puck

I left Providence this morning around 8:45 to give myself plenty of time to get to Harvard. Google Maps didn't fail me, and I parked about 50 minutes later. I found Sever Hall with only some difficulty, where the lovely nerds at the reception desk pointed me to an ATM and a RadioShack, where I picked up a digital audio recorder. I slid into my seat around 10 minutes before Brandon's "Reading and Q&A" session, and I was surprised to see only a half-dozen people there! However, the number of attendees tripled as everyone trickled in at the last minute along with Brandon.

## [Entry #2](./t-699/2)

#### Puck

ALLOY OF LAW READING
  
Brandon took a quick poll, and the majority wanted him to read from
*Alloy of Law*
(I voted for Steel Heart, his self-styled "superhero apocalypse book," but I wasn't too upset at the loss). Brandon took up the entire 45 minute slot reading. He read the entire prologue, summarized the events of chapter 1, and read half of chapter 2.

I'm not a professional book reviewer, and I'm clearly biased, but
*Alloy of Law*
is freaking amazing. It is able to go from touching, to exciting, to hilarious, to disturbing smoothly and believably. Seriously, it's some of the best dialogue I've seen from Brandon (and that's including Lightsong in
*Warbreaker*
).

## [Entry #3](./t-699/3)

#### Puck

I recorded the entire session and, should we get approval to post it (I could understand if Peter would rather we didn't), I'll upload it here. Until then (or instead of that, should we get a "no") here are some details that I recalled on the ride home (no cheating, Peter. I promise!)

#### Brandon Sanderson

- We deal with a bendalloy (Allomantic)/gold (Feruchemical) Twinborn in addition to Wax's steel/iron combo
  
- The nickname for a iron Feruchemist is a "Slider"
  
- A nickname for Sazed is "Harmony" (I think)

#### Footnote

The name for an Iron Feruchemist (store weight) is actually a
[Skimmer](http://coppermind.17thshard.com/wiki/Iron)
. A
[Slider](http://coppermind.17thshard.com/wiki/Bendalloy)
is an Allomantic Bendalloy burner (speed up time in bubble).

## [Entry #4](./t-699/4)

#### Puck

While I was thrilled to hear the excellent, excellent intro to Alloy of Law, I was a little sad that we didn't get to the Q&A part of the session. So I headed over to the Harvard Bookstore, where he would be signing and answering questions. Now, this bit was a little strange for me. I've met Brandon before (probably a dozen times or so between '06 and '09), all at varying levels of fame, I listen to writing excuses every week, and I follow his blag, so it wasn't "oh my gosh, I get to meet him" jitters. I feel like, in all the ways that I want to, I already know Brandon.

The jitters were probably a combination of a couple of things: (1) I had no desire to have him sign anything, I just wanted to ask Brandon a couple of questions. I've never a big "sign things" person, especially when the signer is a person to me, and not a Figure (if that makes any sense). And (2) this was the first time that I had one-on-one interaction with Brandon while considering myself an agent for a higher group (namely, the 17th Shard). It was a bit nerve-wracking in a way that was completely new to me. Anyway, ending my indulgent self-psychoanalysis...

I figured out the way to overcome (1). Instead of having him personalize it to me, I asked him to write a clue about the Cosmere in my worn copy of Elantris (it's my first Sanderson, and is literally falling apart; the cover is scotch taped on ).

#### Brandon Sanderson

He wrote "Do not go to Shadesmar on this world (really, I'm not kidding)" on the title page, then said to me "You guys can chew on that for a little while."

I like that. I think that I'll bring in all of my books to his next New York/Boston signing and ask him for Cosmere clues instead of signatures.

#### Footnote

Brandon has since asked that we not ask for Cosmere hints. He would prefer us to come with specific questions in mind.

## [Entry #5](./t-699/5)

#### Puck

After he signed my book, I asked him a few questions and got the following nuggets (some of these were also overheard in his discussions with other people):

#### Brandon Sanderson

**CAMEO:**
There is a cameo of Josh & Michele in Alloy of Law! There's a gunfight at their wedding reception [I feel like I've heard this somewhere before, but it also sounded new to me].
**DOUBLE TWINBORN:**
There will be a \_\_\_\_\_ Twinborn somewhere in the novel, a Twinborn with matching metals a la how the Lord Ruler used atium

#### Footnote

The Twinborn is Miles, who burns Gold.

## [Entry #6](./t-699/6)

#### Puck

"Does Aona = Love or Compassion?

#### Brandon Sanderson

"You have it, it's just a synonym there. You basically have it

#### PUCK

"Does Skai = Devotion or Order?"

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

"You're not on there. But you are on on the first one [Aona]."

## [Entry #7](./t-699/7)

#### Puck

"Is the definition of Sliver: Someone who has held a large part of the raw form of a Shard temporarily?"

#### Brandon Sanderson

"That is it"

## [Entry #8](./t-699/8)

#### Puck

"How is a Splinter different from a Sliver?

#### Brandon Sanderson

"Let me see... You have met splinters in
*Elantris*
,
*Warbreaker*
, and in
*Way of Kings*
. You have not met them in Mistborn."

#### PUCK

"I feel like we know that. So, qualitatively, what's the difference?"

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

"Qualitatively, they're reverses of one another. A Sliver is a human intelligence who has held the power and released it. A Splinter has never been human."

#### PUCK

"But it derives from a Shard's power."

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

"Yes. That's not it completely, but there's at least something to think about."

## [Entry #9](./t-699/9)

#### Puck

So we got some good stuff. I was a little too starstruck to dig for more specificity on the Slivers, but that won't happen again :D

With my head full of thoughts, I headed back to my car, where the good policing force of Harvard had decided to bestow upon me a $25 parking ticket for the extra 15 minutes that I had overstayed my meter's welcome.

You know what? Totally worth it.


---

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*