# Interview #701: Amsterdam report - Ashley Cowles

## Summary

- Date: 2011-06-000000

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Amsterdam, NL

- Reporter: Ashley Cowles

### Links

- [17th Shard](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/570-brandon-signing-in-norway/)


## Entry #1

#### Ashley Cowles

I do remember some things, but the majority of the questions were about WoT.

#### Brandon Sanderson

He said that all of his own books take place in the same universe, but not on the same world per se. The overall magic system was based on the principle of investing, i.e. people and things are invested by magic. So for example in Mistborn, the metals themselves aren't magical, but they become a vessel for the magic.

Also he said that the ways of magic are different. In Mistborn it's genetic (or through ingesting atium, but he didn't talk about that). In
*Warbreaker*
it has to do with gathering other people's Breath, etc.

## Entry #2

#### Ashley Cowles

Sorry, but he didn't elaborate about WoK either, because some people hadn't read it yet and he wanted to avoid spoilers. So I can't help you there...

## Entry #3

#### Brandon Sanderson

He didn't talk about Shards, but he did mention that it was very likely we wouldn't find out who Hoid was even in the tenth book of the Stormlight Archive. If anything, it would be in his thesis, of which at this moment only 8 copies were printed. He said he might publish it as a book at a certain point, but not right now.

#### Footnote

That thesis statement is Dragonsteel, and is at the BYU library.

## Entry #4

#### Ashley Cowles

Hope that was enough for you, I can't really remember anything else right now!


---

