# [Interview #849: Memories of Light](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=849)

## Summary

- Date: 2012-01-01

- Type: Verbatim

### Links

- [tor.com](http://www.tor.com/blogs/2012/11/announcing-memories-of-light-daily-previews-of-a-memory-of-light)


## [Entry #1](./t-849/1)

#### Terez

These are daily email snippets from
*A Memory of Light*
courtesy of
[tor.com](http://www.tor.com)
. To subscribe to the email list, follow the
[source link](http://www.tor.com/blogs/2012/11/announcing-memories-of-light-daily-previews-of-a-memory-of-light)
.

#### Day 1

It had been useful at Maradon. Nobody knew he had it. That was important. (p. 256)

## [Entry #2](./t-849/2)

#### Day 2

"I should like to hear one of your stories. Perhaps you could tell me of the time your father and you visited Shara?" (p. 115)

## [Entry #3](./t-849/3)

#### Day 3

"Being married is not so bad, Perrin. Why didn't you tell me it was not so bad? I think I am rather fond of it." (p. 196)

## [Entry #4](./t-849/4)

#### Day 4

"Pass his bond to me." (p. 681)

## [Entry #5](./t-849/5)

#### Day 5

"Creator shelter us," she whispered.

Mat scowled. "You know, that's what Tuon said." (p. 624)

## [Entry #6](./t-849/6)

#### Day 6

The right thing had always seemed clear to Galad before, but never had it felt as right as this. Those streaks of light were like indicators on a map, arrows pointing his way. The Light itself guided him. It had prepared him, placed him here at this moment. (p. 725)

## [Entry #7](./t-849/7)

#### Day 7

"Nobody travels the Ways," Ituralde said, aghast. (p. 190)

## [Entry #8](./t-849/8)

#### Day 8

Egwene strode around a frozen pillar of glass in her dream. It almost looked like a column of light. What did it mean? She could not interpret it. (p. 147)

## [Entry #9](./t-849/9)

#### Day 9

The letter was written in Mat's hand. And, Elayne noticed with amusement, the handwriting was much neater and the spelling much better in this one than the one he'd sent her weeks ago. (p. 684)

## [Entry #10](./t-849/10)

#### Day 10

"And farewell to you, old friend," she said to the air. "Until I dream again." (p. 367)

## [Entry #11](./t-849/11)

#### Day 11

"One more thing, the
*marath'damane*
. . ."

"I'll deal with those channelers personally," Mat said.

She gawked at him as if he were insane. (p. 514)

## [Entry #12](./t-849/12)

#### Day 12

"Enough talk. You will bed me now." (p. 120)

## [Entry #13](./t-849/13)

#### Day 13

"We must spread the word to all of our allies," Amys said. "We
*must*
not use this weave." (p. 366)

## [Entry #14](./t-849/14)

#### Day 14

*That*
, she replied back,
*is something one should never,*
never
*say to an Aes Sedai. Ever.*
(p. 700)

## [Entry #15](./t-849/15)

#### Day 15

"It is a simple thing, to stop a man's heart," Cadsuane said, arms folded. (p. 579)

## [Entry #16](./t-849/16)

#### Day 16

"Do not cut off your foot for fear that a snake will bite it, Perrin Aybara. Do not make a terrible mistake because you fear something that seems worse. This is all I will say on the topic." (p. 269)

## [Entry #17](./t-849/17)

#### Day 17

"It is one of the three things which I will require of you. Your payment, to me, in exchange for my life." (p. 160)

## [Entry #18](./t-849/18)

#### Day 18

Fortuona ignored her, standing. "This woman is my new
*Soe'feia*
. Holy woman, she who may not be touched. We have been blessed. Let it be known." (p. 494)

## [Entry #19](./t-849/19)

#### Day 19

"What did you do to your eye?"

"A little accident with a corkscrew and thirteen angry innkeepers." (p. 337)

## [Entry #20](./t-849/20)

#### Day 20

As Tam attacked a second time, Rand lifted the sword and— (p. 310)

## [Entry #21](./t-849/21)

#### Day 21

*And you don't feel a small measure of pride?*
Egwene asked herself.
*Rand al'Thor, once simple village boy and your near-betrothed, now the most powerful man in the world? You don't feel proud of what he's done?*
(p. 157)

## [Entry #22](./t-849/22)

#### Day 22

"Why are you helping me?" Perrin demanded.

"I'm fond of you, Perrin." (p. 295)

## [Entry #23](./t-849/23)

#### Day 23

"Light burn me," Rand said. "You're not him, are you?" (p. 158)

## [Entry #24](./t-849/24)

#### Day 24

"There were many good years. Good decades, good centuries. We believed we were living in paradise. Perhaps that was our downfall. We wanted our lives to be perfect, so we ignored imperfections. Problems were magnified through inattention, and war might have become inevitable if the Bore hadn't ever been made." (p. 147)

## [Entry #25](./t-849/25)

#### Day 25

"Oh,
*blood and ashes*
, no!" Cadsuane said, spinning on them. "No, no,
*no*
." (p. 906)

## [Entry #26](./t-849/26)

#### Day 26

Uno's topknot danced as he continued to blaspheme. (p. 534)

## [Entry #27](./t-849/27)

#### Day 27

"Peaches!" Rand said, aghast. Everyone knew those were poisonous. (p. 714)

## [Entry #28](./t-849/28)

#### Day 28

"But this . . . this isn't about blacksmithing, Perrin . . ."

"Of course it is," Perrin said. How could Rand not see that? (p. 174)

## [Entry #29](./t-849/29)

#### Day 29

"Didn't you once lead a band of thieves out of this forest?"

Birgitte grimaced. "I was hoping you hadn't heard that one." (p. 236)

## [Entry #30](./t-849/30)

#### Day 30

**First Memory:**
  
Rand strode forward, lifting his arms out to the sides. Grass sprouted in waves, red blossoms burst from the ground like a blush upon the land. The storm stilled, the dark clouds burned away by light. (p. 137)

**Second Memory:**
  
A joyful song, a song of awe and wonder, though she could not understand the words. (p. 194)

## [Entry #31](./t-849/31)

#### Day 31

*He doesn't want to fight in Andor*
, Elayne thought.
*He doesn't want to fight alongside me. He wishes the break to be clean.*
(p. 193)

## [Entry #32](./t-849/32)

#### Day 32

Rand stiffened. He'd known what he was doing, on some level, but to hear it explained was disconcerting. (p. 354)

## [Entry #33](./t-849/33)

#### Day 33

If the end of the Aiel was the sacrifice required for Rand to win, she would make it. (p. 382)

## [Entry #34](./t-849/34)

#### Day 34

What did you do when the One Power failed, the thing you relied upon to raise you above common folk? (p. 705)

## [Entry #35](./t-849/35)

#### Day 35

The Blight had consumed the Two Rivers. (p. 652)

## [Entry #36](./t-849/36)

#### Day 36

"Run, Bela," Faile said. "If you've kept any strength back, now is the time to use it. Please. Run, girl.
*Run*
." (p. 760)

## [Entry #37](./t-849/37)

#### Day 37

I AM THE ONLY HONESTY YOUR WORLD HAS EVER KNOWN. (p. 679)

## [Entry #38](./t-849/38)

#### Day 38

Humankind did not have days remaining, but hours. (p. 723)

## [Entry #39](./t-849/39)

#### Day 39

They seemed to be cracks into nothingness. They drew the light in, sucked it away. It was as if he was looking at fractures in the nature of reality itself. (p. 214)

## [Entry #40](./t-849/40)

#### Day 40

"We'll remember those who fell, and we'll tell our children how we stood when the clouds turned black and the world started to die. We'll tell them we stood shoulder to shoulder, and there was just no space for the Shadow to squeeze through." (p. 278)

## [Entry #41](./t-849/41)

#### Day 41

They stood at the edge of time itself, and still Thom Merrilin found a smile. (p. 429)

## [Entry #42](./t-849/42)

#### Day 42

Loial, son of Arent son of Halan, had secretly always wanted to be hasty. (p. 319)

## [Entry #43](./t-849/43)

#### Day 43

By the Light, he had a book to finish before he went! (p. 500)

## [Entry #44](./t-849/44)

#### Day 44

Rise, and save the world. (p. 137)


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*