# Interview #865: Reading the Final Scene of The Wheel of Time

## Summary

- Date: 2013-01-000000

- Type: Verbatim

- Reporter: Brandon Sanderson

### Links

- [Tor/Forge](http://torforge.wordpress.com/2013/01/07/reading-the-final-scene-of-the-wheel-of-time/)


## Entry #1

#### Brandon Sanderson

At signings, I've often told the story of reading the last scene of The Wheel of Time. This might not be news to some of you. However, it's one of the questions I get the most. What did it feel like, some five years ago now, to read that last scene of the book as Robert Jordan wrote it?

## Entry #2

#### Brandon Sanderson

Soon after I was tapped to help complete the series, I asked Harriet about the last scene of the book. (The one that Robert Jordan had, over the years working on the series, promised fans he knew in detail.) She told me that he had indeed written that scene—and though there were large swaths of unfinished portions of the ending that he hadn't had time to work on, he'd been determined to get that last scene on the page.

You can imagine my excitement. I flew out to Charleston for the first time in late 2007—before this, I hadn't read any of the materials, as Harriet preferred that I come get them in person. After a long flight from Salt Lake City to Charleston, Harriet picked me up at the airport and drove me to her house in the city. We got in at nine or ten, I recall, and she had soup warming on the stove. She asked if I'd like some. My reply was, "If it isn't too much trouble, I'd like to read the ending please . . ." Holding my enthusiasm was somewhat difficult.

## Entry #3

#### Brandon Sanderson

So, I spent the next hours late into the night sitting in a chair beside Robert Jordan's computer (it had been moved, by coincidence, out of his office and into the sitting room) reading his ending to The Wheel of Time, then poring over the rest of the notes. I remember Harriet passing by once and asking—with a satisfied smile—"It's good, isn't it?"

And it is. As a Wheel of Time fan for nearly 20 years at that point, I found myself supremely satisfied. The ending is the right one. Somewhat unexpected, somewhat daring, but also very well done. I knew that whatever else happened—whatever mistakes I made—at least this ending would be there, as Robert Jordan intended. We've put it in almost untouched, with just a few edits here and there at Harriet's direction.

You're going to love it.

Brandon

## Entry #4

#### Tor/Forge

From the Tor/Forge January Wheel of Time newsletter. Sign up to receive
[our newsletter via email](http://us.macmillan.com/static/tor/exacttarget/torforge.html?WT.mc_id=10225)
.


---

