# [Interview #985: Rithmatist Signing Report - StormAtlas](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=985)

## Summary

- Date: 2013-05-22

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Albuquerque, NM

- Reporter: StormAtlas

### Links

- [17th Shard](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/3553-rithmatist-albuquerque-nm-signing/)


## [Entry #1](./t-985/1)

#### StormAtlas

I live in South America but while on vacation here in the states got a chance to see Brandon Sanderson at his signing in Albuquerque, NM. He said it was his last stop on the tour so apologized ahead of time if he started ranting. However, he did an excellent presentation and admitted to having gotten a chance to edit a chapter from
*Words of Radiance*
just before the signing.

#### Brandon Sanderson (paraphrased)

As has been mentioned before, Sanderson has said that he hopes to have
*Words of Radiance*
out in November, but couldn't promise anything. He also mentioned, though, that they were talking about a January release, which would be a year from the day that
*A Memory of Light*
was released. Then he cracked an awesome joke about New Mexicans being use to waiting anyway, so we will be fine (because G.R.R Martin lives in NM).

## [Entry #2](./t-985/2)

#### Brandon Sanderson (paraphrased)

Someone in the crowd asked about a possible Alcatraz 5, to which Sanderson responded that he'd actually started working on an outline for it and a few chapters, but it had been slow going because he had to buy back the rights for the book. Sanderson then proceeded to read an intro to one of his chapters that he refers to as an epigraph which was pretty funny.

## [Entry #3](./t-985/3)

#### Brandon Sanderson (paraphrased)

Someone asked if he planned to do more with
*Legion*
, to which he replied that was working on something else, and that he hoped to be able to turn
*Legion*
into a mini-series like the BBC's Sherlock Holmes.

He also read a brief bit of the next
*Legion*
, but stopped about two paragraphs in as he realized how unorganized he'd written it the rough draft and kept getting lost.

## [Entry #4](./t-985/4)

#### StormAtlas

I finally got to ask a question about the Stormlight Archive that Windrunner17 and Chaos helped me with which was: "Why Can Kaladin Surgebind with any gem type but Jasnah and Shallan need specific types?"

#### Brandon Sanderson

A lot of that will be explained as the series comes along. It is really the difference between Soulcasting and the other forms of Surgebinding. It's more a quirk of Soulcasting than it is something that is different about about Kaladin. So you've kind of got it reversed a little bit though; Soulcasting has this additional restriction that the other ones don't.

## [Entry #5](./t-985/5)

#### StormAtlas

Is Cultivation's holder still alive?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes.

## [Entry #6](./t-985/6)

#### StormAtlas

Were Cultivation and Honor romantically involved?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes.


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*