# [Interview #982: DragonCon 2012 - Nalesean's Report](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=982)

## Summary

- Date: 2012-09-04

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Atlanta GA

- Reporter: Nalesean

## [Entry #1](./t-982/1)

#### [NALESEAN ()](http://www.17thshard.com/forum/topic/383-the-ultimate-list-of-questions-for-brandon/page-20?p=40426#entry40426)

Hi --

Long time lurker, first time poster.

While at Dragon\*Con, during Magic:tG with Brandon, I was able to get an answer to one of the question on the big list of questions.

Here is the question:

Why are invested objects like metalminds and Hemalurgic spikes able to be Pushed and Pulled on, but Shardblades and Shardplate, which are also invested, are not susceptible to Pushing and Pulling?

His answer was complex, I took notes, but didn't get recorded audio. I am going to try to explain as best as my notes and memory support.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON (paraphrased)

There were a few concepts that he outlined in answering this question.

1.) The ability to push/pull an invested object is predicated to the amount/power of the investiture

2.) Further, invested objects also gain resistance to pulling/pushing based on proximity to soul possibly via the soul. An example given is that A hemalurgic spike touches the blood of the person, and from there is now part of both the Spiritual Realm and the Physical Realm. This provides what Brandon termed a kind of "soul interference," based on its proximity to the soul.

## [Entry #2](./t-982/2)

#### BRANDON SANDERSON (paraphrased)

This further explains why Vin required more than normal power to push/pull the metalminds from the Lord Ruler, because of their proximity to his soul, via the Spiritual Realm.

3.) The amount of investiture is relatively low on Scadrial, whereas worlds like Sel and Roshar are pushing around "high power" according to Brandon. I interpreted this to mean that hemalurgic spikes and metalminds have low amounts of investiture compared to Shardplate and Shardblades.

## [Entry #3](./t-982/3)

#### BRANDON SANDERSON (paraphrased)

Brandon said that theoretically you can push/pull Shardblades and Shardplates but you would need to wield an incredible amount of power. One example he gave that could so such as a thing is that if you were a Mistborn wielding the full power of the Well of Ascension, you could push/pull Shardblades/plate

#### NALESEAN:

I hope everyone enjoys the question I got to ask.

Thanks,

Trae


---

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*