# [Interview #1034: Interview with Brandon Sanderson - Chris King (Miyabi), Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1034#1)

#### Chris King (Miyabi)

So the first one we have here is: We've seen some hints of the over-arching cosmere story arc, what was the inspiration behind that originally?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I had an idea for a book when I was fifteen, just getting into fantasy novels—just getting into meaning, reading everything I could get my hands on and diving in face first—and I developed that idea over the next few years. I started writing and realized I was just no good as a writer yet. Which was okay, it wasn't a big deal to me. I realized it was beyond my ability to approach, it was a vast, enormous story. Years later when I was writing
*Elantris*
I thought "Well let's just pretend I wrote that book and it was awesome and it's the prelude to what's going on here." That expanded into something much larger and much greater. I've mentioned before, part of my inspiration for this was the fact that one of my favorite writers, Asimov, later decided to connect two of his main story universes, the Robot books and the Foundation books. It was really cool when he did it and I felt what would happen if I started doing something like this from the get go. I've known several authors who do it at the end of their careers—well I guess Stephen King's not even at the end of his career, in the middle of his career—saying let me tie a bunch of these things together. What if I seeded all of this from the get go and use this story, this awesome story, that I wasn't able to write when I was younger as a foundation for it.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*