# [Interview #478: TGS Signing Report - forkroot, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=478#1)

#### forkroot

Hi all—Gotta make this brief as I'm supposed to be working here at the customer site.

Before I get to the signing—just a note that for the second straight day I am consuming a Bacon Maple bar from Voodoo Doughnuts here in Portland and they are totally AWESOME. I vote we stock the
*cuendillar*
bunker with these. I'm going to take some home to my wife—we'll see how they travel.

Yesterday was quite a day. I was delighted when things worked out that I could go to the signing. I managed to negotiate Portland public transit and got there just as Brandon was finishing his remarks to the assembled crowd. As I was trying to figure out how to contact Samadai (who had no idea I was going to be there), I was approached by a bookstore employee who asked if I needed a ticket.

I got my ticket from her and explained my dilemma. Well she was nice enough to make an announcement, asking if there was anyone there with a "screen name" of Samadai—because forkroot (she pointed at me) was looking for him. A younger man on the opposite side of the room looked quite surprised, so I waved at him and made my way over there.

We had a blast talking about WoT stuff and soon had a little crowd of WoT fans talking and exchanging ideas. No one else identified themselves as participating in the re-reads, but we talked it up to the dedicated fans. Hopefully we'll see some of them join us. (lbrown—what a shame you didn't identify yourself to us! We would have loved to talk with you.)

