# [Interview #971: AMOL Signing Report - Terez, Entry #10](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=971#10)

#### Terez

Was Luc a Darkfriend when he went to the Blight?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I'm going to have to MAFO this one, because this is one that I can never remember, and I've had to ask Maria like three times—the whole Luc thing—because I had it spelled out for me several times, but since Jim did a lot of the Luc scenes, I didn't need to remember it, if that makes sense. So go ahead and ask Maria. She's...there's a lot of stuff on that in there—and hopefully that'll end up in the encyclopedia—but there's a lot of cool stuff on Luc and Isam in the notes. It's one of the areas that isn't as sparse. But I can't remember. I want to say no, that neither of them were, but I can't remember when it happened, you know...

#### Terez

Well, I mean...Isam was a baby, you know?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, uh-huh. Yeah, and so....

#### Terez

So...I mean obviously he wasn't a Darkfriend when he went to the Blight...

#### Brandon Sanderson

Right, but he grew up on the streets....

#### Terez

Right, he grew up under that influence, right?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, it's like he was...always...or was he? And when did they...when they...I
*want*
to say that Luc wasn't, but you'll have to ask Maria.

#### Terez

Okay.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*