# [Interview #971: AMOL Signing Report - Terez, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=971#2)

#### Terez

I brought my friend Dick for company since it was roughly a five-hour drive one way. I think I have mentioned him before; he and I have been friends for more than ten years, though I used to be closer to his brother whom I lived and worked with in Baton Rouge for about six months (along with Hoda, who actually made it to Elder at Theoryland but is probably remembered by few).

Dick and I didn't see each other for several years, and then I happened to go to his house one day (this was after RJ died) and I noticed
*A Crown of Swords*
on his coffee table. He was reading it for the first time, and he had no idea any of his friends had read it, so I told him and Hoda and I had read it and that I had more than read it (insert long explanation of Theoryland here). So between that and the fact that he told me he played Tetris Attack (the only video game I love), he and I started hanging out regularly. He finished the series in time to read
*Towers of Midnight*
when it came out. Then he started reading Brandon's books, and has decided to name his as-yet-unborn son Kaladin, which resulted in a funny moment (paraphrased):

(Brandon is signing Dick's book which is addressed to Kaladin.)

#### Brandon Sanderson

(Says something appreciative.)

#### Terez

I told Peter about that, and he said "That's like the tenth Kaladin I've heard of." (Okay, so I exaggerated; I think he actually said fifth.)

#### Brandon Sanderson

\*sighs\* That
*sounds*
like the kind of thing Peter would say...

#### Terez

(to Dick) Yeah, Peter is not as unfailingly courteous as Brandon...

#### Brandon Sanderson

\*hilarious smirk\*

#### Terez

...which is why I like him.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*