# [Interview #1120: Brandon Sanderson RAFOlympics at JordanCon 8, Entry #17](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1120#17)

#### Question

You have thousands of years of history, mostly talking about Stormlight Archives, like Radiants have done this, Heralds have done this, you have in some ways figured out what happened and what’s going to happen with that stuff. And you have a friend/author Patrick Rothfuss that also does this, stuff that happened many many years ago, have you guys ever talked to make sure you’re not going to do the same cool thing?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Good question. No I haven’t ever asked him about that. The only thing I ever remember talking to him about world-building wise was magic and his magic and things like that. I was really interested in sympathetic magic also warbreaker has an element to it, I really liked his sympathetic magic in Kingkiller. But when I get together with Pat I try not to ask the questions that I know the fans are asking him a lot, I try to be somebody who’s a colleague that we can talk about other sorts of things to give him a break from that. I never ask him when the next book will be out, that’s your job not mine. I ask him how his kid is, how has it been working with DAW lately, are there any frustrations for you in the business. The stuff he can’t talk with other people about. He can talk about his kids but he can’t really talk about publisher stuff with a lot of other people.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*