# [Interview #1120, Entry #33]: Brandon Sanderson RAFOlympics at JordanCon 8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1120#33)

#### Question

As your characters have evolved and grown, we’ve been seeing them in different books, we’ve also seen, like with your character Wayne, kind of the sense of humour of the character’s changed, we’ve been kind of seeing this… I guess, uh, more seedy and base sense of humour with him, which in some ways made him more lovable, but like with kids, I’m a little bit worried sometimes, with the age level [laughs], and I’m wondering if we’ll see more characters like that grow in as we’re looking at Mistborn era 2 and 3 coming out, and if so, do I need to be more concerned, or is it really gonna be, or is it… what methods, do we need some rating system [???]

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, I would say that this is more... “I write the character that fits the situation” rather than any sort of an evolution on my part of this, so… I don’t know. I will… really, I would leave that to other people. [pauses] This is kind of one of those weird things where, like, I will both get on the same day, sometimes, e-mails from someone who’s like “how can you be so crude in your books, I thought your books were supposed to be family-friendly” followed by “why won’t you address adult topics in your books [pause as audience laughs], why do they all feel so children-esque, child-esque”, and I would assume that those are the types of e-mails that everyone gets, even George RR Martin. [huge laugh from everyone] “When are you gonna get to some real adult themes, George?” I’m sure there’s someone who’s sent that e-mail to him. Uhm, yeah, I write the books, you know, I have… I’m certainly not as interested as some authors in digging into the more... quote-unquote “explicit content”, but at some points there are characters like Wayne where I’m like, “you know, I need to write this character, who they would be”, and I can have them dance around the words to obstinate… [laughs]that was not the intention! Dance around the words to obfuscate things and something like that, but if I don’t let Wayne say some of the things he wants to say, then I’m not being true to that character in the same way I wouldn’t be… being true to Dalinar if I didn’t let him, you know, be… the strictly “I follow the rules” type of person that he’s become, because both of those types of people exist in the world.
Uhm, your specific question on era 3 of Mistborn, um, is… I don’t anticipate a Wayne-like character, but who knows? Right, era 3 right now is kind-of focused on… two Terris people, the main character and her brother, and she’s a computer programmer in the early days of computer programming, and, well, like a Fortran programmer or something like that… And… You know, it’s going to be… her story’s going to be a little bit more geek-culturish and things like that… It’ll very fun with the artwork in those, she’s saying that.
I can’t promise you one way or the other what I’m going to do, so I think what you’re, what you should be doing is reading them yourself and then deciding for yourself with whom you will share the books.

