# [Interview #1120, Entry #64]: Brandon Sanderson RAFOlympics at JordanCon 8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1120#64)

#### Question

Is there going to be a map of recommended reading order or is it…

#### Brandon Sanderson

Oh, yeah, that’s a great question, is there gonna be a recommended reading order. So I’ve started building a guide similar to the one that they put in the back of Terry Pratchett’s books in the US. I don’t find that guide incredibly helpful, so I’d want to create one that is helpful, that is basically like what we put on the front page where we list all the books saying “if this intimidates you, turn the next page”, and then I’ll have kind of a discussion of what the varied series are, what the entry points are and what… just kind of like a “what is the style of this book”. Like if I can say, you know, if you’re really interested, if you’re, uhm, you know, Warbreaker, if you want a standalone, a little bit more of romance, a little bit more kind of… humour and things like that - Warbreaker. If you’re like “I would love something super-action-oriented that has lots of explosions”, then Steelheart, right? And if you’re like “I like swimming in the deep end, I want to jump in feet first and see how deep it goes”, then we send you to Stormlight, right? And I want to have these introductions at the end and kind of give a sort of fundamentals. “A lot of these are connected, you don’t need to read everything”, stuff like that. And we’re gonna try and get that starting in books… in the near future.

