# [Interview #1120: Brandon Sanderson RAFOlympics at JordanCon 8, Entry #70](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1120#70)

#### Question

In Bands of Mourning you got more into the Connection and you’ve given us some hints there. During previous seminar a question came up on how that relates to your Physical, Cognitive and Spiritual Realm. I guess, we’ve talked about… if people were to go different places… it seems from the hints you’ve given in your books that there’s a Physical aspect to Connection as far as where people are when they use the Connection as well as there’s some ideal with… in the Secret History that we’ve got, when Kelsier was, when he wasn’t Connected enough with Preservation. So can you give us anything more...

#### Brandon Sanderson

I just gave you a ton in Secret History! So much! I gave you a lot in Secret History to philosophize upon, this is very relevant to a lot of things that happen in the Cosmere.

#### Question

I guess, specifically, does someone have to have both… with Connection, are there more than one elements that people would have to have to have Connection to… provide avenue to power from a different area.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Oh, um… there are multiple things that could help with it, yes. There are certain things that you can Connect through to make one strong Connection would be enough for variety of magics, yeah.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*