# [Interview #728: Interview with Brandon Sanderson - A Dribble of Ink, Entry #11](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=728#11)

#### Aidan Moher

Recently, you detailed all the different series and novels you have in the pipeline, including
*White Sand*
,
*The Liar of Partinel*
,
*The King's Necromancer*
, at least nine more volumes in The Stormlight Archive and
*Nightblood*
, a sequel to
*Warbreaker*
, just to name a few. How do you keep them all straight in your head? And, when one project is finished, how do you choose which one to work on next?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Choosing the next project is a balance between the promises I've made to readers and the best way to channel my creativity. I stay fresh by jumping between projects; it's the way I've (for better or worse) trained myself. And so I always have a lot of ideas, and there are a lot of things I've worked on.

One thing to keep in mind with me is that, because of the way I work, some of these things just don't end up turning out. They aren't good enough for publication, at least in their current state, so I shelve them. Imagine it like the B-sides of an album. The band may do a lot of playing, jamming, and recording—and then they pick the very best to present to their listeners.

In the case of the books mentioned above,
*Liar*
turned out poorly enough on the first go-around that it's shelved indefinitely. I'm not sure how I stand on
*The King's Necromancer*
yet, and
*White Sand*
is unlikely to be in good shape for many years.
*Scribbler*
(one you didn't mention) turned out great, and you'll probably see it in the near future.

As for sequels to books that are half-promised, we'll see. Something like
*Nightblood*
(where there is a potential sequel, but the story of the book was wrapped up and told strongly, I feel) is less urgent than something like the rest of the Stormlight Archive (which is a single story, told across many books.) In the case of Stormlight, I've made a stronger promise to readers, one I feel the need to fulfill.

Of course, the question you asked is how I keep them all straight. Lots of notes mixed with quirks of the way my brain works.

#### Footnote

Scribbler has since been renamed, "The Rithmatist".

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*