# [Interview #998: The Wertzone: Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=998#4)

#### Joel Williams

What was it like to take on the project of finishing Jordan's series? Did you have any idea what you were you getting into? Did any unexpected challenges come up?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I certainly did not know what I was getting into. I started reading these books when I was 15, back in 1990, and I've loved them ever since. So I was aware of the complexity of the series and I understood how excited people were, but I didn't know how much or little Mr. Jordan finished before he passed away. So on the one hand I had an inkling, but on the other I had no idea what I was getting myself into. Famously, before he passed away, Jordan had been telling fans that this book would be so big that they would have to sell luggage carts to get them out of the bookstores. He was planning an enormous, epic finale to his series. That's what I was anticipating. When I got the notes it was all there, in theory. The notes indicated a great epic book. But not a whole lot had been done yet. He had written some important scenes, but most things were just outlines or pre-outlines. A project that I expected to take year and half, ended up taking up five years of my career in order to do it right.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*