# [Interview #722: Reddit 2012 (WoT), Entry #30](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=722#30)

#### [Robert Moreau (December 2012)](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/14q354/so_how_long_is_the_series_going_to_be_rjs_answers/)

So how long is the series going to be? RJ's answers from 95–06

Friend of mine posted
[this on Dragonmount](http://www.dragonmount.com/forums/topic/77493-luckers-official-on-brandon/page-10#entry2700786)
and I got a kick out of it, a timeline of RJ's estimates on just how many books the series was going to be:

> **1993**
>
> He still isn't sure how long WoT will go on for, saying probably seven books but adding that when
> *The Eye of the World*
> first came out he saw the series as four books.
>
> "At present I am indeed hoping to complete the cycle in either seven or eight books. I am 90% confident that I can do it in seven, 95% confident that I can by eight. The thing is, as a famous manager of an American baseball team once said: 'It ain't over till it's over.'"
>
> **1994**
>
> "It will last several more books, until I reach the last scene, which has been in my head since the very beginning."
>
> "I do hope there will not be ten books all told. I'm planning for eight, at present, and hope very strongly that I can wrap it all up in that length."
>
> He said he writes as the ideas come and he has no clue as to how long the series will be!
>
> "I knew from the start that I was writing something that would be multiple books. I just never knew how many, exactly."
>
> Not only did he decline to set the number of future WoT books, but he denied ever setting a number and says he never planned it to be only a trilogy. But he seemed to indicate he was planning 9-10 books total. When faced with the prospect of about twelve books, his wife threatened to divorce him and his editor began to make jokes about the Irish Mafia.
>
> "Several. Some. A few. I'm not even speculating now on how many books I hope it will take, because every time I do mention a number I hope I can finish it in, it turns out to take longer. It will be at least eight, because I've signed the contracts for books seven and eight."
>
> "I've stopped saying how many more books there will be."
>
> "At one time, I did hope for eight; now I don't think so. I certainly hope (Please, God!) it doesn't go to ten books, but I have stopped saying anything except that I will write until I reach the last scene of the last book, which scene has been in my head from the beginning."
>
> **1996**
>
> "There will be a few more books, some, not a lot, hopefully fewer than seven more."
>
> "It will be at least ten books, yes. There will be some more books, not too many, and please God, not so many as I've already written. I am, in truth, writing as fast as I can. I want to maintain the pace of the story until I reach the final scene, which has been in my head since before I started writing
> *The Eye of the World*
> ."
>
> **1997**
>
> "There will be at least three more books. I'm not saying that there will be ONLY three. I'm saying that I can't finish in fewer than three."
>
> **1998**
>
> "I believe—believe!—there will be three more books. I am trying to finish up as soon as possible, but I cannot see how to do it in fewer than three books. That isn't a guarantee, mind! In the beginning, I thought that there would be three or perhaps four books total, but it might go to five, or even six, though I really didn't believe it would take that long. It wasn't a matter of the story growing or expanding, but rather that I miscalculated—brother, did I!—how long it would take to get from the beginning to the end. I've known the last scene of the last book literally from the beginning. That was the first scene that occurred to me. Had I written it out 10 years ago, and then did so again today, the wording might be different, but not what happens. It has just taken me longer to get there than I thought."
>
> "When I finished
> *A Crown of Swords*
> , I said it would take me at least three books more to finish. Now that I have completed
> *The Path of Daggers*
> , it looks like it will take me at least three more books to finish. Believe me, guys, I'm trying as hard as I can to get there as fast as I can."
>
> "I don't have a set amount of books planned. I believe it will take at least three more books to reach the ending that I have known for more than 15 years."
>
> "Remember, after
> *A Crown of Swords*
> I said at least three more books....the same thing I say now."
>
> The usual "at least three more books" was mentioned several times in an increasingly loud voice.
>
> "I am only asked that question by about 300 people a day. The answer is that there will be at least three more books. At least. As I said earlier, I know everything that I want to happen and I have known the last scene of the last book for fifteen years. I also know that I cannot get everything that I want to happen into less than three more books. So that's where we stand at the moment."
>
> **1999**
>
> Firstly, RJ said three more books "at least" and that he'd try to do it in three if he could, but he couldn't promise it would be only three. And he said he thought it would take "at least five years".
>
> **2000**
>
> "Sigh! At least three more. I know I've said that before, but it's still the case."
>
> "It still sits at three more books to finish, but I've always said from the time I began using the three books that it would be AT LEAST three books—that I'd try to finish in at least three books, but I couldn't promise. I know that I couldn't possibly finish in fewer than three. If I can finish in three, I will. But that's what I'm hoping for, what I'm trying for. NOT a promise."
>
> "There is no set number. It takes as much space as it takes."
>
> **2001**
>
> The next book will be out very soon after he's finished writing it. He don't know how many more books there'll be. At least three. If he can finish it in three, he will.
>
> There will be no more than five, but also no less than another three books to be expected to appear in The Wheel of Time series.
>
> "There will be at least three more books. The next book will be in bookstores very shortly after I finish writing it, and Michael Jordan is my kid brother whom I taught to play basketball."
>
> **2002**
>
> "After
> *Crossroads of Twilight*
> , there will be two more books, knock wood, God willing and the creek don't rise. I never intended The Wheel of Time to be this long. The story is progressing the way I planned, but from the beginning I believed I could tell it in many fewer words, many fewer volumes."
>
> "I think twelve."—Harriet
>
> **2003**
>
> When asked "how many more books?", which of course met great laughter, he responded that he had started the process intending to have only five or six. Now on book 10, he remarked that he would complete the series in two more books if at all possible. If not, then three.
>
> Jordan showed up around 7, and gave a little speech. He said there will be at least two books, and that he will not write a word more than he has to.
>
> "How many more books will there be? There will be at least two more books. I apologize for that. I cannot finish it in fewer books. I will try to finish it in two more. I have known the last scene of the last book since 1984. I know where I'm going. The problem is...[my tape is once again inaudible and this was one of the few parts of his speech I could not hear, sorry gang]. That's about it."
>
> "I really hope—knock wood, spit over your shoulder, and sacrifice to the gods—that I can finish up in twelve books total. We shall see."
>
> "No, at least two more books, I'm afraid....I've had some people say they'd like five or ten, but I generally throw something at them."
>
> **2004**
>
> "I hope—please God, are you listening?—that there will be only two more books in the main sequence."
>
> "I very much hope to finish in two more main sequence books. It's not an absolute promise, but I'm very much hoping for it and I think I can do it."
>
> "I sincerely hope it will be possible to tie everything up in two books."
>
> **2005**
>
> There is only one book left in the series but it will be a doozy. He will fight to prevent it from being "George R.R. Martined," or split for publication.
>
> "I am committed it is going to be 12 books, even if it is fifteen hundred pages long and it requires you to bring a luggage cart to get it out of the store. Bring your knapsack, you may need it, because no matter what the case that is going to be it."
>
> "One more—the twelfth book. That will be so even if that book has to be 2000 pages in hardcover, and require a luggage cart and shoulder strap to get it out of the store."
>
> "I have said it before and will say it again. There will be one more book. Even if it has to be a 1500 page book. It will be the last book even if you have to use a luggage cart to move it."
>
> "For Segovia, my intention is finish with twelve books, and that may mean that the last book will be VERY long, but I really can't say how long it will take me to write. My publisher is always trying to get me to commit to a time frame. I just do a little sand dance until he goes away. I carry a small bottle of sand with me in New York for exactly that purpose."
>
> Book Twelve will end the main sequence if he has to personally go to New York and beat the publishers at Tor, even if it runs two thousand pages and they have to invent a new way to bind the books (shudder). There will be two more prequels a la New Spring, and there might—very big MIGHT—be another trilogy in the same universe.
>
> First, "the next book will be out very shortly after I'm done writing it." Next, "the next book will be the last book, even if it's 2000 pages, and you need a luggage cart to carry it out of the bookstore."
>
> "Can we all say it together? One more book. I don't care if it has to be 2000 pages and you have to wheel it out the door. One more book."
>
> **2006**
>
> "After
> *Knife of Dreams*
> , there's going to be one more main-sequence Wheel of Time novel, working title
> *A Memory of Light*
> . It may be a 2,000-page hardcover that you'll need a luggage cart and a back brace to get out of the store. (I think I could get Tor to issue them with a shoulder strap embossed with the Tor logo, since I've already forced them to expand the edges of paperback technology to nearly a thousand pages!) Well, it probably won't be that long, but if I'm going to make it a coherent novel it's all got to be in one volume."

#### [Brandon Sanderson (December 2012)](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/14q354/so_how_long_is_the_series_going_to_be_rjs_answers/c7fu36t)

Ah, and what a marvelous 2,000 page book it would have been. I was really shooting for this. Turns out, however, that I don't have the influence that RJ did, and couldn't persuade the publisher that printing a 2,000+ page book was viable. You'll have to be satisfied with three 800 pagers instead.

I do kind of hope we'll be able to do a cut of the volume in ebook where I weave the three books back into one, which would fix some of the timeline confusion in
*Towers of Midnight*
, which was the big casualty of the split.

(I knew that, in all likelihood, a split would be mandated, and so I prepared for it by deciding on the three book split instead of a two book split, as I feel it fit the narrative flow better. However, I was working on Perrin when the first split happened, and didn't realize until afterward that by jumping back to the beginning of his story after finishing
*The Gathering Storm*
, I was going to create the issues it did with Tam.)

#### [archaeonaga](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/14q354/so_how_long_is_the_series_going_to_be_rjs_answers/c7hty9c)

So you're planning on doing a
[Phantom Edit](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phantom_Edit)
of your own work? I, for one, would be really interested to read something like this, but I think that what you lost in chronological clarity in the split, you gained in pacing and narrative clarity.

That said, you mentioned in a previous interview that
*The Gathering Storm*
's intensity also came from an awareness that your first effort in the Wheel of Time really needed to be a home run. Would your decisions regarding the narrative structure have changed if you didn't feel that pressure?

#### [Brandon Sanderson](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/14q354/so_how_long_is_the_series_going_to_be_rjs_answers/c7hwdv9)

I wouldn't consider it a phantom edit, as I wouldn't be removing sections. I'd be moving them around, adding in a few deleted scenes. More like an extended edition mixed with pacing tweak.

I don't know how my decisions might have changed if I hadn't felt that pressure. I might have chosen to do Rand/Perrin in the first book and Egwene/Mat in the second book. Perrin/Mat have great stories in TofM—but they're not as focused as the ones for Rand/Egwene. I don't know. The timeline might have been even worse.

This is something I'd have to play with, if I were actually to attempt it, to even see if the narrative flow would work that direction now that I've made writing decisions with three books—instead of one—being the reality.

#### [archaeonaga (January 2013)](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/14q354/so_how_long_is_the_series_going_to_be_rjs_answers/c7u5x8z)

Now that I've finished reading
*A Memory of Light*
, I have to say, I think this would be an insane task. Mostly,
*The Gathering Storm*
and
*Towers of Midnight*
would be the things caught up in reorganizing, since
*A Memory of Light*
's timeline is internally consistent enough to justify things. It would also let you sprinkle the Black Tower POVs a bit more nicely throughout the trilogy, since the frontloading of that plot at the beginning of
*A Memory of Light*
is one of the few structural weaknesses I thought I saw.

In any case, congratulations! You've really done it! Those annotations will be fascinating, assuming you get permission to take it on.

#### [Brandon Sanderson](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/14q354/so_how_long_is_the_series_going_to_be_rjs_answers/c7uczau)

You're right on the Black Tower structural weakness. I actually plotted that sequence to go all in
*Towers of Midnight*
, but ran up against deadlines and only did a few chapters of it. It would work far better moved earlier.

Thanks for reading. I'll see what I can do about annotations.

#### [archaeonaga](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/14q354/so_how_long_is_the_series_going_to_be_rjs_answers/c7unhjo)

That makes a lot of sense. One gets the feeling that a lot of your writing was done with several different forces tugging you one way or another; collaboration can be tough, especially for artists who are used to working in the silence of their mind, and I can't imagine adding a massive fandom to that.
p

Seriously: congrats. Tai'shar...Utah? :)

#### [Brandon Sanderson](http://www.reddit.com/r/WoT/comments/14q354/so_how_long_is_the_series_going_to_be_rjs_answers/c7wcd63)

Tai'shar Nebraska, actually. But I like Utah well enough. :)

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*