# [Interview #545: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Another Long and Rambling Post on Future Books, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=545#3)

#### Brandon Sanderson

PART TWO: BUFFERS AND MY WRITING SPEED

Because of this, and because of my writing style, I need a little bit of a break before I tackle it. I pushed myself very hard to get both
*Towers of Midnight*
and
*The Way of Kings*
ready for publication this year. Even then, it was only possible because I had written a sizable chunk of
*Towers of Midnight*
while working on
*The Gathering Storm*
AND because I'd already finished an early version of
*The Way of Kings*
.

People have mentioned before that I am somewhat prolific. Some of this is an illusion. For a while now, I've been warning people that we've been chewing through my buffer at a frightening rate. Once upon a time, I would turn in a book three years before it was scheduled to come out. This gave me a lot of wiggle room. If a book wasn't working, I could shelve it and think about it, then get back to it. Working that far ahead prevents most big crunches.

However, the books I've been working on lately were a little more high profile than previous ones—and high-profile books get released when they get turned in, not three years later. So, though I took eighteen months finishing
*The Gathering Storm*
, it looked like I finished it very quickly. (I turned it in during the summer of 2009, and it came out in the fall of 2009.
*Warbreaker*
came out that same year, though I'd turned it in back in 2006.) The very long write of that book was invisible to a lot of readers because books I'd written years before continued to come out while I was working on it.

The buffer is gone now. I'll talk more about that later. However, I want to mention something else that helps me be productive—and that's allowing myself deviations to keep myself interested. I've told people before that I wrote the
*Alcatraz*
books to give me a break between
*Mistborn*
novels. If I'm able to refresh myself on other projects, I don't get burned out on the big epics. (Which are my true love, but can be very demanding on me mentally.)

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*