# [Interview #545: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Another Long and Rambling Post on Future Books, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=545#5)

#### Brandon Sanderson

PART FOUR: STORMLIGHT ARCHIVE PUBLICATION SCHEDULE

Now on to Stormlight Two. (The title was originally
*Highprince of War*
, but I'm feeling in my outlining that this book needs to be weighted more toward Shallan, so a different title is likely). I'm stuck between a rock and a hard place here on this one. Writing a Stormlight book, like writing a Wheel of Time book, is a huge undertaking. Getting one of each out in the same year required fourteen-hour days, six days a week, for a good year and a half. I can't ask my family to go through that again. Beyond that, the buffer is gone. (I still had a little bit of it when working on
*Towers of Midnight*
—not to mention the first version of
*The Way of Kings*
that I'd written in 2002. I threw it away and started over, but having written it once before sped the process a great deal.)

So . . . what do I do? I'm feeling right now that I will go straight into Stormlight Two after
*A Memory of Light*
. But that means (at very best) it won't be out until the fall of 2012. I don't really have a choice, however. The Wheel of Time fans have waited too long for their ending already. I need to do
*A Memory of Light*
, and I need to do it right, no matter how long it takes. So I can't make any promises about Stormlight Two except that I won't take a break after
*A Memory of Light*
, but will go right into it and try to have it done in time for the fall 2012 season.

That means, by a quirk of the publishing business, that I have two epics this year, none next year, and two the following year. (If I meet my Stormlight deadline, which may or may not happen.) Still, this is what I'm planning to do. Barring something unexpected, this is what you should anticipate. I don't think there will be a book at all from me next year, which punches me in the gut. But that's what we get for pushing to have two books out last year and two books this year.

