# [Interview #545: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Another Long and Rambling Post on Future Books, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=545#6)

#### Brandon Sanderson

So, here's my official future status, as I sometimes post.

BOOKS YOU WILL SEE SOON

> \*
> *Towers of Midnight*
> (November 2.)
>   
> \*
> *Alcatraz Versus the Shattered Lens*
> (December 2010.)
>   
> —A note on
> *Alcatraz*
> . This is the fourth and final of the
> *Alcatraz*
> books in my contract. I do plan there to be more in this series, but I don't have time for them right now. And so, for now, this is going to stand as the ending of the series. I'll do
> *Alcatraz*
> Five eventually, I promise.
>   
> \*
> *Scribbler*
> (Early 2012.)
>   
> —A note on Scribbler. This is a shorter steampunk book I wrote in 2007, just before I got the call about The Wheel of Time. It's quite good, and Tor has decided to purchase it. It involves chalk-based magic and a boy who is the son of the cleaning lady at a school for people who learn the chalk magic. I haven't had time to give it a revision, but will likely use some of the time in my free months between now and January to do a draft of it. If I turn it in January or February, you won't see it until a year after that, due to scheduling.

BOOKS YOU WILL SEE SOMEWHAT SOON

> \*
> *A Memory of Light*
> (March 2012.)
>   
> \* Stormlight Archive Book Two (Late 2012 or early 2013.)
>   
> \* Stormlight Archive Book Three (One year after Book Two.)

ANTICIPATED SEQUELS

> \*
> *Alcatraz*
> Five (Indefinite hiatus.)
>   
> \*
> *Elantris*
> Two (Planned to be written after Stormlight Three.)
>   
> \* Second
> *Mistborn*
> trilogy (It's coming someday, I promise.)
>   
> \*
> *Nightblood*
> : Book two of
> *Warbreaker*
> (Coming someday.)
>   
> —Some notes here.
> *Elantris*
> has three books in the series, but they are loose sequels of each other. This means that side characters in one become main characters in the next. So while you'll see Raoden and Sarene in the second book, they won't be main characters. (Kiin's children will be.)
> *Warbreaker*
> is two books.
> *Mistborn*
> is a trilogy of trilogies, with the second trilogy in an urban (20th-century-level technology) setting. For Stormlight, I'm planning a pattern of two every three years, with a different epic—a standalone, or one of the sequels mentioned above—in between. Thus the
> *Elantris*
> sequel is next in line after Stormlight Three, which would be followed by Stormlight Four and Five.

MAYBE COMING SOMEDAY BUT ONLY PARTIALLY WRITTEN

> \*
> *Dark One*
> (YA dark fantasy.)
>   
> \*
> *Steelheart*
> (Superhero apocalypse.)
>   
> \*
> *The King's Necromancer*
>   
> \*
> *The Silence Divine*
> (Shardworld novel, standalone.)
>   
> \*
> *White Sand*
> (Shardworld trilogy.)
>   
> \*
> *The Liar of Partinel*
> (Shardworld novel, one of two.)
>   
> \*
> *Dragonsteel*
> (Major Shardworld epic. Won't be written until Stormlight is done.)

POSSIBLE PROJECTS FOR MY TIME OFF

> \*
> *Mistborn*
> short story (Looking likely.)
>   
> \* Unnamed urban fantasy (This is what I'm working on right now. Watch Twitter/Facebook for updates on this story. It involves a necromancer pizza deliveryman as a protagonist.)
>   
> \*
> *Scribbler*
> revisions (Will almost certainly be done.)
>   
> \* Finishing one of the unfinished novels mentioned above (Not likely, but you never know.)

Who knows when/if anything written during my side-project time will get published. Sometimes, these stories are too unformed (as I like to be very free and loose when I write them) to make it. On other occasions, there isn't time to do revisions on them. (I write initial books very quickly, but spend many months in revision.) For instance,
*Alcatraz*
books were my deviations for 2005 and 2006, and the first of those came out very quickly.
*Scribbler*
was the one for 2007, and it won't be published for a year or so yet. I didn't have time for much in the way of deviations in 2008 or 2009, just the unfinished projects I mentioned above.

We shall see. As always, thank you for reading and supporting me in this compulsive writing addiction of mine.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*