# [Interview #964, Entry #1]: AMOL Signing Report - Rob B](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=964#1)

#### Rob B

The Brandon Sanderson signing in the Philadelphia Library on February 19, 2013 began for the Memory Keepers at about 5:15 when four of the seven Memory Keepers met outside the library and proceeded to a nice restaurant close to the Library where we chatted over dinner. Paul, Phil, and Sara-Jane were as enthused as I was. Phil brought several pieces of memorabilia (Wheel of Time playing cards most of which have really great art although the rendition of Rand makes him look like the lead singer of a 1980s hair-metal band, a poster of one of the cards) which we exchanged over dinner.

As is often the case when people like us get together, the discussion strayed a bit and of course it landed on A Song of Ice and Fire and the
*Game of Thrones*
show on HBO as well as other authors we enjoyed. As dinner was winding down, Drew, the fifth Memory Keeper arrived and he joined in with our discussion of
*A Memory of Light*
and our similar reading tastes (George R.R. Martin, Terry Brooks, Joe Abercrombie and I kept mentioning Peter V. Brett and Myke Cole as new authors they should try) and hashed out who are favorite WoT characters were. Discussion focused quite a bit on The Last Battle chapter.

Dinner concluded and we headed back to the library and donned our red Memory Keeper t-shirts, met up with the remaining Memory Keepers (Bob S. and Ash) and set about our tasks. Initially, we just sort of walked the line, Phil took photos and helped to herd people into the auditorium, which was eventually filled with some folks standing. Prior to Brandon and Harriet arriving, we had the opportunity to speak with
[Joshua Bilmes and Jessie Cammack of JABberwocky Literary Agency](http://awfulagent.com/agents)
, who represents Brandon, about Brandon and the event in general as well as some of the authors Joshua represents.

