# [Interview #964: AMOL Signing Report - Rob B, Entry #14](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=964#14)

#### Rob B

Although I was taking some pictures during the signing, I was able to point my ears into some of the conversations between Brandon and the fans. First and foremost, Brandon is an awesome person. He first thanked people for coming, then asked if they had any questions for him. Never once did he rush anybody or shush them. For fans who mentioned they were writers themselves, he offered words of encouragement.

#### Brandon Sanderson (paraphrased)

One great bit of information I overheard was the next Mistborn novel would be published in 2014.

Brandon also mentioned (and I tried to filter this through all the other discussions circulating) that Hoid would be the main character (I think) of the trilogy or that Hoid would feature as the main character in another trilogy.

I also overheard Brandon say his least favorite Wheel of Time character was Cadsuane, I don't think he is alone in that. Well, for I fact I know he isn't alone because she was probably my least favorite character as well.

One Russian fan brought a Russian edition of
*Mistborn: The Final Empire*
to be signed.

Another Bulgarian fan said the Bulgarian translations, which are recent, were done very well.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*