# [Interview #816: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Today, I got up and I did not have a Wheel of Time book to work on., Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=816#2)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Just about five years ago, I got that fateful call from Harriet. Since that time, I have always had a Wheel of Time book that I needed to be working on. Occasionally I would take breaks, as I did to write
*The Alloy of Law*
a couple years ago. However, the knowledge that I soon needed to be back to work on the Wheel of Time was always there.

That work has been my constant companion. For reference, when I got that call, I had only released a couple of books: the second Mistborn novel had come out the month before. I had written others that were awaiting publication—including several Alcatraz books, the last Mistborn book, and
*Warbreaker*
. I also had a draft done of
*The Way of Kings*
, another done of
*The Rithmatist*
, and some preliminary work done on a book called
*Steelheart*
.

Yes, I'd written a lot. I still had only a handful of books out in stores. It had been two years since
*Elantris*
was released. I was brand new at this.

I still feel brand new. Yet, oddly, I also feel weathered. Finishing the Wheel of Time has been a wonderful experience, but it has also been grueling. I have always respected Robert Jordan, but now I respect him even more—and for a multitude of reasons. One of those is the fact that during most of his career, he was able to release a Wheel of Time book every year or two. That's an awesome amount of work. Doing three books has worn me out.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*