# [Interview #913, Entry #3]: Interview with Brandon Sanderson - Fantasy Book Critic](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=913#3)

#### Robert Thompson

With your debut novel
*Elantris*
(2005) you made some noise with the intriguing storyline, imaginative magic system and the fact that it was a standalone book. What were the greatest challenges you faced in writing Mistborn, a series that follows the more traditional trilogy format, and in particular
*The Well of Ascension*
, which is the middle volume in the trilogy, oftentimes considered the weakest of the three? What about the positives of writing a series opposed to a standalone?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Mistborn was difficult because it was the first trilogy I'd ever written. I want all my books to feel like standalones because I really like wrapping up a story satisfactorily in one volume, but with the Mistborn books I had to make sure the story was consistent across three volumes.
*The Well of Ascension*
was particularly difficult in that a second book in a series has to effectively recap what happened in the first book, without being too repetitive. Also, a second book has to end in such a way that it leaves readers wanting to read the third, but I've never liked big cliffhangers. I struggled with finding a balance in these two things with the second book. To me, the advantages to writing a trilogy are that I can develop characters further and get more in depth into the world. For example, I could develop three magic systems in Mistborn instead of just the one in
*Elantris*
. People like to read about continuing characters, and it is fun for me to be able to expand on some of the side characters.

