# [Interview #86: TPOD Signing Report - Pam Basham, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=86#4)

#### Pam Basham

Regarding That Whole Thing About the Horn—Hawkwing vs. Moiraine

Question: Hawkwing says they follow the banner and the Dragon. Moiraine says the Heroes will follow whoever winds the Horn. Was Moiraine wrong?

#### Robert Jordan

\*Arch look\* Moiraine doesn't know everything. She was speaking the truth as she knows it.

#### Pam Basham

(I took this to imply that Moiraine was misinformed, and the conflict resolved, until he continued.)

#### Robert Jordan

However, she
*is*
correct in that whoever sounds the Horn "controls the Heroes." [exact quote]

#### Pam Basham

(I started to get confused at this point. Is Moiraine right or is she wrong? What's he trying to tell me?)

Question: Then what happens if the Dragon and the banner are on opposite sides of the conflict from whoever sounds the Horn?

#### Robert Jordan

"Then we get a [rift] in the Pattern." [1]

#### Pam Basham

(This elicited a
*pronounced*
Startled Moment from Harriet, which I took at the time to express the same reaction as me—"A
*WHAT*
?!?"—but which Kevin told me later he interpreted to be more along the lines of "I can't believe you're telling them that!" It could, of course, mean something entirely different.)

At this point, part of my mind was running wild down paths about the Dark One and potential entrances into the Pattern, while the rest of it remained stunned, frozen, in absolute denial: "A
*WHAT*
?!?"
I remain steadfastly in denial about this one. Oh, sure. He
*did*
say it, and if it becomes relevant, he'll work it in, no doubt. But I firmly believe he Made This Up. If the Dark One was aware of this, it seems to me that he'd be working a
*lot*
harder on making this happen, since it would seem to represent the equivalent of a serious "crack in the door to the Pattern." It's so much less work than using up all your main players (Chosen) in inefficient, conflicting plots and setting up Rand for "easily escapable situations involving an overly elaborate and exotic Death." [2]

[1] I'm not certain if this is the exact word he used. It may have been "schism" or "breach," but it was definitely a word expressing the concept of a forced opening/rupture. Sorry. It was lost in the momentary brain freeze.

[2] Moridin, of course. He's overly elaborate and exotic even
*before*
he puts on his silk coats.

#### Tags

horn of valere
,

heroes of the horn
,

falme
,

hawkwing
,

moiraine
,

dragon soul

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*