# [Interview #813: Chattanooga Times Free Press Q&A with fantasy author Brandon Sanderson, Entry #11](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=813#11)

#### Casey Phillips

How many attempts did you make to publish before you wrote
*Elantris?*

#### Brandon Sanderson

*Elantris*
was my sixth novel. I was working on my 13th when I sold
*Elantris*
. It was not publishable when I first wrote it; it took several revisions and drafts. It was probably somewhere around book nine that I was really figuring things out, I feel. I like to write and jump projects. Instead of finishing one and slaving over it to make it much better, which may have been better for me in the long run, I would always jump to something new.

For new writers, I always advise balancing those two. When you finish a book, write another one, but then go back to your first one and work it over to see if you can make it better. Then, go write a third one and go back to the second one and see if you can make it better.

Do that instead of doing what I did, where you finish a book and go, "Hmm...that one was good, but I can do better?" and then writing another book and ignoring the first one.
*Elantris*
was the first one that I really dug into revisions on, and it ended up paying off.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*