# Interview #1002: AMOL Signing Report - ziggl

- Date: 2013-01-000000

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Roseville, MN

- Reporter: ziggi

- Links

-- [Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/brandonsanderson/comments/169q9q/i_met_the_man_yesterday_and_asked_him_what_he_was/?sort=new)


## Entry #1

#### ziggl

I met the man yesterday and asked him what he was reading lately...then promptly forgot his recommendation. Help?

First of all, I have no clue why Brandon and Harriet chose to be in Minnesota on release day (after a midnight release in Utah) but OMG THANKS for that, it was a really fun experience. It was the same spot I met George Martin some time ago.

When I met George, I was way too starstruck to say anything, so I knew I had to be prepared for Brandon, a far less intimidating figure. I went with a casual, "Assuming you have any free time, what have you been reading lately?"

He responded with a funny anecdote about something recent he just picked up and was reading on the plane...but he thought it was pretty poor and didn't want to share the name or author, haha.

Then, really quickly at the end, he said that the last thing he read was
*Fire Upon the Pond*
by Someone or Other. Yeah, I totally missed the author, but I thought I would be good with the title. I came away with words "Fire" and "Pond" for sure, but google searches reveal nothing...I have tried googling for a list of his favorite books and nothing I found helped.

Reddit, I give to you this quest. Do not fail me!

EDIT: I didn't make this clear, but he mentioned this book was one of his favorites, which is why I was looking for lists of his favorite books, AND why I think someone here might know it (instead of just shooting in the dark).

#### gze

I think it's
*A Fire Upon the Deep*
by Vernor Vinge based on his
[twitter](http://twitter.com/BrandSanderson/status/22432518334578688)
.

#### [Brandon Sanderson ()](http://www.reddit.com/r/brandonsanderson/comments/169q9q/i_met_the_man_yesterday_and_asked_him_what_he_was/c7ucipx)

Yup. That's it.

Other favorites:
*Dragonsbane*
,
*Tigana*
.

#### ziggl

Oh man, hello sir, thank you for this/these. I just wanted the line to keep moving, I swear, otherwise I would've asked again to confirm the name.

Thanks! I could tell you enjoy meeting the fans, I mean you were chatty and friendly even for me, #330 in line! That really meant a lot, and made the whole thing a great experience.

#### Brandon Sanderson

It is my pleasure.

#### Tags

favorites


---

