# Interview #225: KOD Signing Report - John Nowacki

- Date: 2005-10-000000

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Bailey's Crossroads, VA

- Reporter: John Nowacki

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/5ef0e7b104500d5b)


## Entry #1

#### John Nowacki

On the signing at Border's in Bailey's Crossroads earlier tonight: From what I saw, not much to report.

#### Robert Jordan

After the usual remarks about pronunciation, when the next book will come out, the next book is the last no matter how long it is, and so on, he signed a few books and then remembered he was supposed to do a brief Q&A.

## Entry #2

#### Robert Jordan

He gave one RAFO when asked whether Siuan and Leane would be back to full strength if stilled again and then Healed by a man.

#### Tags

siuan
,

leane
,

stilling
,

healing
,

severing

## Entry #3

#### John Nowacki

Nothing else really stood out among the questions I heard then or when he was back to signing books.

#### Robert Jordan

He did say that Ilyena was an Aes Sedai when asked, but that's hardly big news.

#### Tags

ilyena
,

aes sedai
,

age of legends

## Entry #4

#### Robert Jordan

On this "outrigger" trilogy, as he called it, where he might revisit the WOT universe for some books that don't involve the main characters we know, he was hesitant and said it's something he's just mulling over for now. He doesn't know when he'll get to the other prequel short novels, either, but at least whenever that happens it will be after the next book is finished. A WOT encyclopedia is next then, followed by that Infinity of Heaven series—he called it a trilogy, for whatever that's worth.

#### Tags

outriggers
,

prequels
,

encyclopedia
,

infinity of heaven

## Entry #5

#### John Nowacki

So, not much like signings for earlier books when you could count on some interesting answers. I'm not sure whether that's because of the turn that the series has taken or because it's pointless to try to get him to answer anything useful.


---

