# Interview #224: KOD Signing Report - Erik

- Date: 2005-10-000000

- Location: Bailey's Crossroads, VA

- Reporter: Erik

- Links

-- [rasfwrj](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written.robert-jordan/msg/34afb0465809bd00)


## Entry #1

#### Erik

Alright... I'm going to the Bailey's Crossroads Signing tomorrow evening... will anyone else from here be there? I'll be the guy with the shaved head and the teal backpack with all the patches on it, and I'd love to meet some of y'all if y'all will be there.

Also, I'm planning on asking if Verin is a former librarian for the Thirteenth Depository (if that hasn't already been asked and RAFOed)... someone let me know? And if there are any questions that people think need to be asked, I'll try to get to them. I have four books that need signing and a friend with at least one.

## Entry #2

#### Erik

I showed up about 8 or 8:15, and the place had cleared out, there was no line so I walked right up to him at the table where he was signing.

I arrived the same time as his wife/editor Harriet (I assume it was her, black hair with a shock of white hair in the front; RJ asked her if she'd found an Indian place for dinner, so I leaped to the Harriet conclusion).

#### Tags

harriet

## Entry #3

#### Erik

Anyway, I gave him the book, told him I was liking it so far, and asked him how he keeps track of all the random Aes Sedai? I was just kinda making polite chit-chat, and hadn't planned a question.

#### Robert Jordan

So he launched into what sounded like a stock response about keeping a computer file of all the "initiates of the White Tower" with detailed descriptions, etc, and he finished with saying that it's a really big file, 2.5 megs. Without really thinking about it, I said "Wow, so how am I supposed to keep track of all that without that file?"

The store manager standing behind RJ gave a little nervous laugh, and Harriet, jumps in and said "you're just supposed to be dazzled."

"OK," I respond, and gave a kinda questioning look to RJ.

"Read, read" he answers.

"Sure. Thanks for signing your book."

#### Tags

rj on writing
,

rj's notes
,

harriet
,

aes sedai

## Entry #4

#### Erik

I was in and out in like three minutes and home for Lost. Good times.


---

