# Interview #754: Kaffeeklatsch with Team Jordan - Ishara

- Date: 2012-04-000000

- Type: Paraphrased

- Location: Roswell, GA

- Reporter: Ishara

- Links

-- [Theoryland](http://www.theoryland.com/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=6867)


## Entry #1

#### Ishara

As promised, my re-telling (I can't legitimately call this a report) of some of the Q&As we got from our \*awesome\* meeting with Alan and Maria at JordanCon. All questions and answers are paraphrased to the best of my recollection.

## Entry #2

#### Ishara

We know that Shadowspawn cannot survive going through a gateway. Would the
*gholam*
have died just by going though the gateway in
*Towers of Midnight*
, or was it necessary for Mat to have kicked him off into the abyss?

#### Maria Simons

No, he wouldn't have died just by going through the gateway, but he's unique.

#### Tags

towers of midnight
,

gholam
,

gateways
,

shadowspawn
,

constructs

## Entry #3

#### Matt Hatch

So, would it be possible to get a concrete definition of what the difference is between Shadowspawn and a construct?

#### Alan Romanczuk and Maria Simons

Well...a construct doesn't have to be Shadowspawn. Someshta (the Green Man, a Nym) was a construct, and he was not Shadowspawn. But, no, we haven't got a list of which belongs to which category.

#### Tags

constructs
,

shadowspawn
,

someshta

## Entry #4

#### Ishara

There has been some discussion lately on the identity of the old man seen in Graendal's palace. Many of us believe that it was Jain Farstrider, the same man who wandered into the
*stedding*
all those years ago. But some have recently begun to think it could be Alsalam, as the descriptors are similar: older man, long hair etc. Can you confirm that the old man from the
*stedding*
and Graendal's palace are the same person: Jain Farstrider?

#### Alan Romanczuk and Maria Simons

(They whispered to each other for a bit before they answered, we offered to put our fingers in our ears and hum...) It can't hurt to tell you all—yes. It was Jain Farstrider.

#### Tags

farstrider
,

alsalam
,

graendal
,

compulsion
,

the fires of heaven


---

