# [Interview #589: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Wrapping Up My Time Off, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=589#2)

#### Brandon Sanderson

The second thing I tried writing was a short story set in the
*Mistborn*
world a few hundred years after
*The Hero of Ages*
. This one just didn't work; the characters weren't gripping for me. More importantly, it just didn't FEEL like a
*Mistborn*
book. I got about one scene into it.

As I was working on it, however, I did some worldbuilding on this time period in Scadrial's history. I got to thinking about what was wrong with the short story, and why it didn't feel right. This grew into an outline regarding a completely different story—with no overlap of characters—set in the same time period. I nurtured this and started writing, and it felt right from the get-go. I had the right tone, so I kept writing, expanding my outline, letting the story grow as big as it wanted to be.

In the end, I had an 85,000-word novel that I named
*Mistborn: The Alloy of Law*
. I'm very excited about the story, and I offered it to Tor for publication with one condition: They had to put it out in 2011. I've mentioned before that I worried I wasn't going to have a book release for you in 2011, what with the extra time
*A Memory of Light*
is going to take.
*Alloy of Law*
turned out so well that I wanted to share it with everyone, and use it to fill in the gap between
*Towers of Midnight*
and
*A Memory of Light*
.

You may have seen
[the Tor announcement on this book](http://torforge.wordpress.com/2010/12/02/tor-announces-acquisitions-of-two-new-novels-by-brandon-sanderson/)
. It should come out this fall; I'd guess September or October. I want to reassure people that I didn't do this instead of writing the next Stormlight book. This time period between big books had to be used to write something shorter, something more self-contained. I just couldn't have done a Stormlight book. It was this novel or nothing. I'm pleased that
*Alloy of Law*
turned out so well.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*