# [Interview #252: New Spring Correspondence, Entry #14](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=252#14)

#### Robert Jordan

To: Ernst Dabel
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 29, 2005 12:38 PM
  
Subject: Re: Thematic Consultants—pg H 15,16,17 & 18

Okay, Ernst, here are my comments on 15, 17 & 18, plus some additional comments on 14 & 16.

Pg 14, panel five: we should be able to see the vines and leaves on Siuan and Moiraine's shawls.

Pg 15, panels 2 & 3: the sisters should all have white ribbons in their hair as a sign of mourning. These are long ribbons fastened to the temples so that they dangle on either side of the face. Moiraine also should have a long white lace scarf tied around each upper arm, dangling so that if her arms were at her sides, the ends of the scarves would reach her wrists.

Pg 15, panel 3. Moiraine's dress is wrong here. For one thing, it shows folds where it should fit quite snugly. For another, it displays cleavage where it should have a high neck. The titillation factor for this dress comes entirely from the embroidery, which is done so as to emphasize the body's curves.

Pg 16, panel 1. Sierin needs a seven-striped stole, and also a Great Serpent ring on her right hand.

Pg 16, panel 3. Sierin needs the Amyrlin's stole here, too.

Pg 16, panel 4. The woman doing the birching should have her hair in "long, beaded braids" that flail about as she works the birch. This woman's hair is gathered atop her head.

Pg 17, panels 2 & 3. Sierin needs a Great Serpent ring (right hand) and the Amyrlin's stole. Remember that Sieren's stole is only half as wide as Duhara's. (Duhara being the woman seated behind her. Her stole, remember, is red.)

Pg 17, panel 4. Moiraine’s shawl needs the vines and leaves. Part of Sieren's stole would be visible here, too.

Pg 18, panel 3. Moiraine is galloping as though being pursued here, but in fact she is supposed to be riding away very quietly so as to attract no attention.

Pg 18, panel 5. The banker looks too tall, as is she would be taller than Moiraine if she stood. Remember, she is markedly shorter than Moiraine.

All my best, Jim

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*