# [Interview #894: AMOL Book Tour - Dayton Q&A, Entry #13](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=894#13)

#### Question

What are some newer authors that you would recommend?

#### Person close to camera

A guy called Brandon Sanderson...

#### Brandon Sanderson

Um, boy let's see, how new is newer? Like, Rothfuss is not that new any more is he? Everybody's already figured out Rothfuss. Um...but I really like Daniel Abraham's work, and he's a little bit lesser known, and he's fantastic. I really like everything I've read by N.K. Jemisin. She writes these fantastic books—
*The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms*
was the first one, and it's amazing. Slight content warning on that one, by the way, guys. But it was a gorgeous book, so those are books that I've enjoyed reading. I really like Mary's books, if you haven't read Mary Robinette Kowal. She is a friend, so I have to give that disclaimer, but her books are very awesome. They're like regency fantasy, so it's like Jane Austen with magic. And so I enjoy those...that's just a few.

And my current favorite living author is Terry Pratchett, which is not—yeah, he's been around for a while—but if you haven't read Terry Pratchett, you should read Terry Pratchett, but don't start at the beginning because he gets better with age. [laughter] I tried starting with the beginning in the 80s, and was like, "Oh, it was okay," and then later, seven years later, I tried another of his books, and it just blew me away. So I suggest either starting with
*Guards! Guards!*
,
*The Truth*
, or my most recent favorite,
*Going Postal*
. The end of
*Going Postal*
is awesome...[audio break]...and then
*Tigana*
by Guy Gavriel Kay. Slight content warning on that one as well.
*Tigana*
is gorgeous, the best one-volume epic fantasy book I've ever read. And he's the guy who wrote
*The Silmarillion*
, so he did—what I'm doing with Robert Jordan, he did for Tolkien. He just didn't get any acknowledgement for it except for a thank you on the acknowledgements page.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*