# [Interview #894: AMOL Book Tour - Dayton Q&A, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=894#5)

#### Question

Do you write your own books? [laughter]

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes, I do write my own books.

#### Question

Has working on another author’s writing influenced your own writing?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I would say yes. I...but let's just make clear, I probably would not have said yes to doing this project for anyone else. The Wheel of Time characters are like my friends from high school, that I've known them for so long—I grew up with these books, and that was a big influence in me making the decision to say yes. And I often describe working on the Wheel of Time like the equivalent of heavy lifting for weight training. It forced me to grow, or break beneath the weight. And I've learned a lot more about, for instance, Robert Jordan's subtle use of foreshadowing, his excellent use of characterization, his ability to blend a description with narrative flow.

There's just a lot of things I've learned while working on this, but probably the biggest thing I've learned is how to interweave so many viewpoints, which is not something I'd ever done successfully before. I had tried it in books that didn't get published, with that many viewpoints, and I had not been as good at weaving back and forth between.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*