# [Interview #610: London Signing Report - Thomas C, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=610#4)

#### Thomas C.

Brandon Sanderson decided to read some unpublished material from his forthcoming book
*The Alloy of Law*
, a fourth book for the
*Mistborn*
trilogy. And before you jump up and down about a trilogy only having three books, this is a
*Mistborn*
novel, and is set 300 years after the end of the trilogy. Brandon Sanderson said that while the magic was the same, he wanted to take it into an industrial age. He did point out that it would not be steampunk, but would have that feel to it. At some stage in the future, he would like to do a sci-fi series based in the
*Mistborn*
world.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Spoilers for
*Mistborn: The Alloy of Law*

Brandon Sanderson read from chapter 1 of the book, which focuses on the character Waxillium Ladrian. The passage focused on Waxillium getting an unexpected meeting from someone related to an incident that happened six months ago. He was back in the city, having put his guns down and focusing on trade. And that incident was a tragedy when chasing a psychopath in a Wild Wild West environment that affected Waxillium on the inside. It sounded intriguing, and I am sure
*Mistborn*
fans can't wait!

End of spoilers.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*