# [Interview #1032, Entry #1]: Lytherus Interview: Brandon Sanderson dives into the world of Steelheart](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1032#1)

#### Lauren Zurchin

As part of Brandon Sanderson's Featured Author Week here on Lytherus, the author was gracious enough to sit down and answer some questions for Lytherus about his newest book
*Steelheart*
.

What's
*Steelheart*
? In short, it's a twist on your idea of superheroes: what if all of them were evil? Here's the book's synopsis:

> Ten years ago, Calamity came. It was a burst in the sky that gave ordinary men and women extraordinary powers. The awed public started calling them Epics.
>
> But Epics are no friend of man. With incredible gifts came the desire to rule. And to rule man you must crush his will.
>
> Nobody fights the Epics . . . nobody but the Reckoners. A shadowy group of ordinary humans, they spend their lives studying Epics, finding their weaknesses, and then assassinating them.
>
> And David wants in. He wants Steelheart—the Epic who is said to be invincible. The Epic who killed David's father. For years, like the Reckoners, David's been studying, and planning—and he has something they need. Not an object, but an experience.
>
> He's seen Steelheart bleed. And he wants revenge.

In the interview, Sanderson explains the series in his own words, talks about why finding the names of the characters was a challenge, covers why all of the beings with powers are evil, and more. He also talks about his writing routine and books he's read recently. This is a great interview for fans of Brandon's old and new, so be sure to check it out!

