# [Interview #582: 4th Age Podcast Interview with Team Jordan, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=582#3)

#### Mark

Which brings me actually to...well, that was one of the questions I was going to ask later on; I thought I'd pick a different tangent rather than
*ter'angreal*
and the Horn of uh…call it vuh-LEAR.

#### VIRGINIA

Please correct our pronunciations, too, you guys, whenever you run across them; that's one of the big things we want to pin down is, how we should pronounce some of these things so if you hear us say something and you don't think it's what RJ would have wanted, then please just break in and say 'no'.

#### Maria Simons

[in her sweet little girl voice] Okay.

#### MARIA SIMONS

Valere (rhyming with vuh-LEAR) was the way he pronounced it.

#### MARK

Yay, I got it right!

#### VIRGINIA

Who's keeping score?

#### MARK

Well, I'm almost never right, so it's good to be able to say I was right for once.

#### MARIA SIMONS

I used to be wrong about a lot of pronunciations when I first started working for him, because that was about the time of
*A Crown of Swords*
, and I would say something, and say it wrong, and he would give me this look, like 'What are you saying?' and correct me, so I got most of them down over time.

#### VIRGINIA

I can see that look perfectly, because I actually have a very short video clip from one of the book signings where somebody tried to pronounce 'the Shaido', and he just gave them 'the look', and said, 'It's not Shy-doh. It's not Shadow. It's Shah-EE-doh. Everybody kind of went, [in a small, apologetic voice] 'O-kie.' [laughter] He could quell an entire room with one look. It was amazing.

#### JENNIFER LIANG

The first time I met Jordan at a signing, the first thing he said to me was correcting my pronunciation of something. I was like, 'Awww, I ruined it! He'll never talk to me again now!'

#### MARIA SIMONS

He wouldn't hold it against you. I—

#### JENNIFER LIANG

Oh, yeah. Well clearly he didn't because he did eventually come to DragonCon, so...

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*