# [Interview #80: Barnes and Noble Chat, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=80#1)

#### Moderator

Welcome to the BarnesandNoble.com Live Events Auditorium. Robert Jordan, the mastermind behind the bestselling THE WHEEL OF TIME series, will join us online to discuss his newly released illustrated guide to the series—
*The World of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time*
at 7 PM ET. Please feel free to submit your questions now by clicking on the Submit Question button and typing in your query. PLEASE NOTE: In order to make Mr. Jordan's visit to BarnesandNoble.com as pleasant as possible, please submit each single question only ONE time. Thanks for your consideration and don't forget to join us at BarnesandNoble.com when the conversation with Mr. Jordan begins at 7 pm ET.

Please do not send multiple copies of the same question.

Signed bookplates from Mr. Jordan have just arrived. A limited number of signed bookplated copies of
*The World of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time*
are available at a 30% discount by clicking on the jacket cover at the top of the screen. Order them while they last! See you at 7 pm ET.

PLEASE REFRAIN FROM SENDING THE SAME QUESTION MORE THAN ONE TIME. THANK YOU.

Welcome to BarnesandNoble.com, Robert Jordan. We are glad you could join us online this evening to discuss
*The World of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time*
.

#### Robert Jordan

Thank you for having me.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*