# [Interview #414: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Reader Mail, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=414#2)

#### Patrick

How long does it take to write a book? (Just guestimate . . . )

#### Brandon Sanderson

Well, it honestly depends on the book. It's not just a matter of length, it's also a matter of complexity. The more viewpoints I'm trying to balance, and the deeper the setting, the longer the book will take. Also, it depends on what you call 'writing' a book—do you include all drafts, or just the rough? What about the planning? Here are a few estimates based on some of my books, drafting and planning time included.

*Alcatraz Vs. The Evil Librarians*
(50k words, one viewpoint.) 2-3 months.
  
*Elantris*
(200k words, three main viewpoints.) 6-8 months.
  
*Mistborn: The Hero of Ages*
(250k words, 5 main viewpoints.) 8-10 months.
  
*The Wheel of Time: The Gathering Storm*
(300k words. 21 viewpoints. Chunks outlined and written by Mr. Jordan already.) 16 months, pulling extra hours.

So . . . imagine if I HADN'T had outlines and materials left by Mr. Jordan. It would probably have taken around 2 years to write a book that length. (Which, actually, was about how long it took Mr. Jordan to write a lot of his books.)

Every author is different, however. Some write in bursts, some write slow and steady, a little each day. It's hard to judge exactly how long it will take you to write a book. There's no 'right' way to do it.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*