# [Interview #1051: AMOL Signing Report - NutiketAiel, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1051#4)

#### NutiketAiel

After the reading, the store held an auction to sell off a signed
*Memory of Light*
poster to the highest bidder, with the proceeds going to Project Read, a Dayton-based charity promoting literacy. Unfortunately for me, I was severely outbid (I need a better paying job), and the poster went for $210. Later on in the evening, a Stormlight Archive poster was found and also auctioned off, this time for $220.

It was then time for the signings. After getting my own books signed, I sat as close to Brandon and Harriet as I could, taking notes as the various fans spoke to them and asked questions. There was far too much to record everything, I think, but I took down some of what I considered to be the more interesting, amusing or informative tidbits and included them below. After the first round of signings, when Harriet had retired and Brandon called us back up for personalization, I informed him that I was taking notes to post for the Seventeenth Shard. I asked his permission to post the conversations that I had overheard, since I wouldn’t put up private talks that were not part of the Q&A without permission. He told me to email the information to his assistant, Peter, before doing so (which I have done, though as noted I never heard back from him), and then gave me permission to sit next to the signing table so that I could hear better and take notes more effectively. That was quite a thrill for me, I must admit, and I even managed to make myself useful when one of the fans asked Brandon to personalize the book with his favorite Mat curse. Brandon couldn’t decide off the top of his head, so he asked me to look up an image of the blood and bloody ashes tee-shirt. You know, the one that has all of Mat’s profanity in one convenient square? I almost failed, actually (stupid smartphone), but was eventually able to get the image for him when he suggested a good search term. Oh, and if anyone was curious, Brandon ended up going with “sheep swallop and bloody buttered onions,” which just so happens to be my favorite Mat curse, too. :-D

A very proud moment, for me; I helped my favorite writer look up fictional profanity. ;-)

Anyway, here are some tidbits from Brandon’s conversations with his fans (sometimes with a preface about the question, other times just with Brandon’s quote; there are a few potential spoilers in here for
*A Memory of Light*
, one MAJOR spoiler for
*A Memory of Light*
and to a much lesser extent Mistborn,
*Warbreaker*
and
*Legion*
):

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*