# [Interview #428: BarnesandNoble.com Book Club Q&A with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #105](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=428#105)

#### chocolatebar

I hope this isn't a RAFO, but how accurate is the WoT 12 product description on the Amazon and Barnes and Noble websites? It implies Rand and Egwene get the spotlight in book 12.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Well, it so happens that I wrote the majority of that product description myself, and so I'd say that it is rather accurate.

[Jason's review](http://www.dragonmount.com/Books/Gathering_Storm/review.php)
implies some things about the focus of the book as well.

You'll notice that I'm not flat out answering the question you seemed to be getting at. (Is this book mostly about Rand and Egwene?) That's because I don't want to dig into this too deeply. If I begin talking about which characters have the focus in this volume, people will start trying to pry out of me if "such and such" character appears, and if so, how often. I want to spoil as little of this book as possible.

Therefore, I refer you to the two sources above (the product description and Jason's review) and will say that they are accurate in as much as what they say, but will note that neither talks about everything that is in the book. I have said before that almost all major viewpoint characters appear in
*The Gathering Storm*
(there is one absent) and that it focuses on several of the characters, while the second book focuses on others. But even the characters not being focused on have parts in each book. Some of the things you've been waiting a long time to see happen in this book. Others were reserved for the next volume.

Let's leave it at that for now.

