# [Interview #428: BarnesandNoble.com Book Club Q&A with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #45](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=428#45)

#### Nightfire

Hey Mr. Sanderson, I know that
*A Memory of Light*
should be finished in the next couple years (at the latest). I know that you tend to work on multiple projects. Unless you are planning to do another (totally) new project can we expect another
*Warbreaker*
,
*Elantris*
, or preferably Mistborn book as you release the ten
*Way of Kings*
books?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I do like to work on multiple projects. During those early unpublished years, I was always hopping from book to book, and it became habit for me. It really helps me keep fresh, allowing me to try new things and experiment with my style. One of the hardest thinks about working on the WoT has been the number of side projects I've had to set aside because of lack of time.

And so, with
*The Way of Kings*
series (aka The Stormlight Archive) I plan to do the books on a 2-to-1 ration. Meaning two Stormlight books, followed by one random side book. Generally, you should expect three books every two years from me, as that's been my speed. So there should still be a Stormlight book every year, though we'll see.

Some will be new things, others will be in current series. My current plans are to do an
*Elantris*
sequel in 2015, for instance, and I'd like to do the second (and final)
*Warbreaker*
book eventually.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*