# [Interview #428: BarnesandNoble.com Book Club Q&A with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #77](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=428#77)

#### TaurusRW

Hope you can answer this one. In the world of the Wheel, would the soul of an animal be reborn as the same animal when that particular Age comes again, like humans are?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I don't know of anything specific that Jim said about this, and I've read a lot of the FAQs and interviews. Still, it might be out there hiding somewhere. I'll put this on my things to ask his assistants about so I can know if he did. As far as I understand, the only thing we know about animals and the Wheel is that wolves go to the World of Dreams when they die.

However, looking at the sources Mr. Jordan is drawing from and the overall mythology of the series and world, I'd guess that they are reborn, and as the same animal. There is no talk of a person being reborn as a slug in their next life, and the fact that wolves are proven to have spirits gives subtle indication that other animals do as well. If so, I'd guess they are bound to the Wheel like everything else, and rewoven into the Pattern. What I say, however, is not canon in the same way that what Jim said was. Let me do some more digging to find an answer, if there is one, and ask me again some other time. (And if anyone knows of an interview where he talked about this, feel free to post and point me in the right direction.)

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*