# [Interview #205: DragonCon Report - Jennifer Liang, Entry #16](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=205#16)

#### Jennifer Liang

We got two very special, very unique compliments this weekend.

#### Teresa Patterson

The first was from Teresa Patterson. After her Q&A, we were talking a bit and she told me that she encounters a lot of fan groups for the various series that she's written for. Most of them are full of "Oh wouldn't it be nice if we...". They talk about doing great things, but they don't ever DO great things. Looking around our track room, at the gorgeous hand made flags, the women in beautiful Aes Sedai shawls and men in sexy Asha'man coats, she told me that we are a fandom that actually DOES great things. We aren't full of idle talk, which is why she likes us so much.

#### Jennifer Liang

The second compliment was passed onto me by Bill Fawcet, Robert Jordan's literary agent and one of the people responsible for arranging his appearances at Dragon\*Con this year.

#### Robert Jordan

While he was out with Jordan and Harriet, Jordan mentioned that he felt "inspired" by the huge, organized turn out for Dragon\*Con this year.

#### Jennifer Liang

Not only did he have signings and speaking engagements like Comic Con, but he had an entire conference room devoted entirely to dissecting and celebrating his work. So, yes, I suppose that was a little inspiring.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*