# [Interview #205, Entry #8]: DragonCon Report - Jennifer Liang](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=205#8)

#### Jennifer Liang

The next big event was a Q&A session with Darrell Sweet.

#### Darrell Sweet

Darrell explained the process by which the WoT covers are made and why they look the way they do. He explained that he thinks of the covers as being advertising posters for the books and are designed to catch attention. He tries to make sure that he can tell it's a "Wheel of Time" novel you're looking at; opposed to the covers he does for other series.

He also explained that Tor frequently asks him to make changes to the art to suit the needs of the cover layout. For example, he was asked to make the figure of Perrin on the cover of
*Knife of Dreams*
shorter. As you can see by looking at the cover, if Perrin was the proper height, the text would cover part of his head.

He also related an amusing story about the cover from
*The Dragon Reborn*
. The Jordans own the original, final painting that became the cover for this book. They have it hanging at the end of the hallway by the stairs. A few months after the painting was delivered, Darrell got a call from Harriet asking if he could "fix something" for her. Of course he could! What was it? Well, she could see the floating head of Ba'alzamon from the spine from her bed at night and it bothered her. Could he please remove it? So Darrell obliged and now the painting we all know as the cover for that book no longer exists.

