# [Interview #890, Entry #2]: The Eye of the World press release](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=890#2)

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:  Eleanor Lang
  
Publication date:  February 21, 1990

  
  

THE EYE OF
  
THE WORLD

  
  

ADVANCE PRAISE FOR THE EYE OF THE WORLD

"This intricate allegorical fantasy recalls the works of Tolkien because of its intensity and warmth."

--
Publishers Weekly

  
  

THE EYE OF THE WORLD (A Tor book distributed by St. Martin's Press/February 21, 1990/$12.95, trade paperback) is a powerful saga of fantasy that focuses on the age-old conflict between good and evil.  Author Robert Jordan has created a world so exceptional and magical, with characters and settings so voluminous, readers will feel that they are part of the tale, becoming caught up in the villagers [sic] fear of the hideous Trollocs.  Once thought to be mythical, the Trollocs are carnivorous monsters set out to destroy the villagers and -- perhaps even the entire world.  The only one to be trusted is Moiraine, a powerful witch whom all have misgivings about.  It is she who reveals the only plan of redemption -- a plan that will involve the lives of three very different young men, only one who is destined to be the hero.  THE EYE OF THE WORLD is the first volume in what is sure to be an important new series.

  
  

ABOUT THE AUTHOR
  
Robert Jordan is a graduate of the Citadel and served in Vietnam.  Before becoming a writer he was a physicist and nuclear engineer.  He lives in Charleston, South Carolina.

