# [Interview #520: Plot Related Q&A With Maria Simons + New MAFO by Luckers, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=520#5)

#### Luckers

This is also from one of
[Brandon's hash outs with Matt from Theoryland](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=482)
. In it Brandon speaks of the nature of Parallel Worlds.

> Brandon: Extrapolations of this question get us to: is there one Dragon for all different Parallels or are they all different Dragons? Traveling through the Portal Stone seems to indicate that there are many different lives Rand could have led. The same thing happens with several of the
> *ter'angreal*
> that people go through. The question then is, are those all separate universes? Do we have a multi-verse sort of concept? Or are they possibilities and do these worlds all exist or could exist, what is the difference. In some of those Rand failed. So, is Rand the Dragon in all of them or is Rand not the Dragon in some of them? What happens in the ones where Rand failed? Are they real worlds? Are those different worlds where there is a different Dark One who then takes over and destroys that world or maybe not, maybe he makes it has he wishes. Or are those just possibilities, reflections of this world that don't really exist except when we touch them? Those are all very good questions. Robert Jordan said that
> *Tel'aran'rhiod*
> is a reflection of all different worlds, which implies other worlds continue to exist. The World of the Finns is something different...
>
> Matt: ...he called it a Parallel World...
>
> Brandon: Yes, the Parallel World, that one and also the one Rand and Lanfear visited are persistent regardless of someone from this world visiting. Yet, many of those seem almost shadowy and reflections of the real world, some of them seem as real just strange when visiting them. What happens in these different world, that sort of thing, those were never questions that Robert Jordan answered...

Ok, my request for clarification is mainly concerned with that last paragraph—specifically it left me confused about whether Brandon is speaking about Parallel Worlds or Mirror Worlds. Brandon seems to lump both in together, describing some as shadowy, some as solid. Brandon describes the Finn world as THE Parallel World (we also know the Ogier world is a Parallel World), but in the same paragraph Brandon seems to define it as a persistent Mirror World of some form, and grants that same allocation to the world Rand and Lanfear visited in
*The Great Hunt*
.

#### Maria Simons

Cut Brandon a break, here. I had to look it up to make sure that I had which one was which correct. The 'finn worlds are Parallel Worlds, the Ogier world is a Parallel World. The place that Lanfear, Rand, Loial and Hurin went to was a Mirror World, as were all of the ones in the Portal Stone incident.

#### Luckers

[Sorry Brandon! I am an uber geek and get carried away and never meant to attack you! Mea culpa!]

