# [Interview #219: Radio Dead Air Interview, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=219#9)

#### Glas Durboraw

What can you tell me, as a husband-and-wife team, what can you tell me about the collaboration between an author and an editor?

#### Robert Jordan

It's not really a collaboration, at least not in our case. I write the stuff. She looks it over, and she says to me, "You can do..." She'll do brackets and say, "You didn't convince me here. I don't believe what you say has happened, or what you say this person said, I don't believe it. Make me believe it." Or she'll bracket a section and say, just "You can do better than this." And there's not so much of her actually doing cutting or suggesting different wording—that doesn't happen very often now—but a good bit of, you know, "Do better." That sort of thing.

#### Harriet McDougal

And, it isn't a collaboration, but we do...I think the key is that each of us respects the other's work.

#### Robert Jordan

And trusts the other.

#### Harriet McDougal

Yes. And it's an older relationship than the romantic relationship. We had been editor and writer working together for two years before we ever went out on a date. So we kind of bonded in that way before we bonded in a romantic way.

#### Glas Durboraw

That's great to hear; I think that's really wonderful.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*