# [Interview #136: Elf Fantasy Fair - Aan'allein, Entry #16](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=136#16)

#### Aan'allein

Jordan would have another interview with audience questions at 14:30, so an hour before that I went up to listen to Brian Froud. That was pretty interesting actually. Some of you might know him from "Lady Cottington's Pressed Faery Album," or maybe a weird movie like "The Labyrinth." He's a fantasy-artist: painter and puppet-maker and pretty cool.

A while later I was joined by Isabel again, and together we waited on Froud to end, so that we could rush towards the chairs on the first row which were vacated. Okay, I know, my bad, but still... \*grins\* it was fun always being there, close enough to sometimes see Jordan's eyes through his sunglasses. (Which, on retrospect, he only seems to wear when he's really interviewed. When only somewhere to sign, or when there are only audience questions, he doesn't wear them.)

Maryson would be interviewing Jordan again, and I almost sank through the floor when realizing he was just going to ask the same questions as the day before. Jordan seemed to feel the same way. Luckily there were some new questions thrown in the mix and those were fairly interesting, but the exact same questions as the day before got the exact same answers, although even shorter where possible. And Jordan said things like, "as most of you will have heard me say before..."

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*