# [Interview #136, Entry #7]: Elf Fantasy Fair - Aan'allein](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=136#7)

#### Question

An Asmodean question... [Yup, we really were that far gone. Who cared anyway, we could always get back in line for the next round. Although I now did regret I didn't print out every single question I received from you guys, but only went for one paper with those most important / least likely to get RAFOd questions. Especially because I couldn't remember what went before the 'pepsy monkey' question, so was incapable of making Jordan recall his line of thought there.]

#### Robert Jordan

Van Morrison... [laughter] No..? Oh, okay. I thought that would be a good answer to the Asmodean question. Jimi Hendrix? Or perhaps the... Actually, Mick Jagger for... How else do you explain "Sympathy for the Devil"? Aha. Ha!

#### Question

\*finally managing to get the entire question asked\* Just using the first five books, is the answer also intuitively obvious?

#### Robert Jordan

I think so. It seemed to me so. It seemed to me that there was no need to go into any more detail. I thought that if I went into any more detail, I was being blatantly obvious, and you know...what do I need to do? Caper around with a sign saying, "Here! Here! There he is, see?"

I mean, I assumed that the people who read my books are intelligent to a certain degree, have a reasonable level of intelligence, and are able to deduce things that you know...I mean, I don't have to tell them water is wet. They know that. I don't have to tell them that if they fall off the roof, it's gonna hurt when they hit, you know, they know that.

So I...no, I...At this point, I must tell you: although I will continue to put clues into the books. Again. A bit here and there. If I see a spot where I can put a clue, for those who are slow of wits to catch up...I will not tell you. For the simple reason I am enjoying watching you all try far too much to deprive myself of the pleasure of that.

Yes...I particularly like, actually, Mick Jagger as answer to that.

