# [Interview #246: KOD Signing Report - Darren, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=246#1)

#### Darren

Well, my first experience meeting Robert Jordan, and it was unique, not what I expected and genuinely fun.

This was at Vroman's bookstore in Pasadena. From reading the reports online from the other fine folks here at Dragonmount, I arrived early. Mr. Jordan was due to begin at 7pm so I strolled into the store at 5pm. Even arriving 2 hours prior to the start, seats up front were filled, and there was standing room only when the actual event began.

Prior to his arrival, people were reading copies of the books they'd brought to be signed, they were chatting on cell phones, listening to iPods and introducing each other to new friends. One mother daughter team sat down next to me. The teenage daughter commented quietly to her mother that the crowd was more "diverse" than she'd thought it would be. Looking around I noticed a wide range of people; men, women, Asian, African American, Caucasian, Latino, older people (a husband and wife in their late 70's if a day), folks in their 50's, 30's, 20's, right on down to some pre-teen boys. The mother asked her daughter what she meant, and her daughter explained she thought "they'd just be a bunch of geeks here but there weren't." Well, it made me chuckle.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*