# [Interview #856, Entry #5]: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: A MEMORY OF LIGHT Release Events](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=856#5)

#### Brandon Sanderson

ITEM #4: WELLER BOOK WORKS BY MAIL

Weller Book Works is now SOLD OUT. All of the 1000 books they ordered have already been reserved by readers. If you want a signed copy of the book and won't be able to make it to one of my tour cities, there will be a couple additional ways to get signed copies. (I'll post details later.) But if you want your book personalized, the best way to make that happen is to call one of the bookstores on my tour and ask if they can arrange it for you.

I will be going to Weller Book Works in late December to sign, number, and personalize 1000 copies. Weller's will then ship them out; they will try to time the shipping so the book arrives at your door on the 8th. However, they're not allowed to deliver before that date, so they can't cut things too close and some books may arrive after the 8th. If that's the case, though, they'll try to keep the delay as short as possible. International orders will be shipped first, since those have the longest transit time. (Note that Sam Weller's cannot track packages internationally. They've tried.) I'm really very sorry that the shipping cost has gone up so much this year, but the size of a book like this limits their shipping options.

I am also going to be signing at Weller Book Works again in the middle of the tour, so if you want a signed book and can't make it to any of the other signings, that may be a good option for you. Any copies I sign for Weller's after December won't be numbered, however.

If you call Weller's or any other tour bookstore to order a signed book, please be certain to tell them (even if they don't ask) specifically how you want the book personalized. If you don't tell them specifically, they will have it signed but not personalized. Simply telling them your name is not enough. You have to tell them "I want it personalized to John" (for example). If you don't want it personalized, tell them "Signature Only" just in case.

Unfortunately, since I'm signing all the Weller preorder books weeks before the tour starts, Harriet will not be there to sign them as well.

Thank you all for reading, and I hope to sign a book for you at one of the tour events. Let me apologize in advance for how sloppy my signature is.

