# [Interview #960: Brandon Sanderson finishes Robert Jordan's bestselling Wheel of Time Series with A Memory of Light, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=960#1)

#### Zack Smith

Imagine if J.K. Rowling had died before finishing Harry Potter, or if (as some fans fear) George R.R. Martin passes away before completing A Song of Ice and Fire, the bestselling series that's also the basis for HBO's Emmy-winning
*Game of Thrones*
. Now imagine you're the one who has to come in, bring the epic to a satisfactory conclusion, resolve dozens of dangling plot threads, all while dealing with a passionate and demanding fan base who'll never let you forget it if you fail.

That was the challenge set before young writer Brandon Sanderson when he was called upon to complete The Wheel of Time, a series of doorstop-sized fantasy novels published from 1990 to 2005 by Robert Jordan, a pen name for James Oliver Rigney, Jr., that have sold 44 million copies worldwide. Jordan's death in 2007 while working on the planned 12th and final volume of The Wheel of Time caused an uproar among those seeking to know the fate of hero Rand al'Thor and the other characters.

Enter Sanderson, the prolific young writer of the acclaimed Mistborn series. A longtime fan of The Wheel of Time, Sanderson was tasked with turning Jordan's partially-finished manuscript, pre-written ending and extensive notes into something that would successfully conclude the series, which eventually was split into three novels. (Jordan had once said the last book could run 2,000 pages; the finale trilogy collectively ran more than 2,500). That last book,
*A Memory of Light*
, was published in January to rave reviews and a spot on the top of the
*New York Times*
bestseller list.

Sanderson will appear at Quail Ridge Books and Music with Jordan's widow and editor Harriet McDougal on Feb. 20 to promote
*Light*
and answer questions about the series. We got him on the phone to ask what it was like to finally bring the series he loved to an end.

