# [Interview #310, Entry #3]: Robert Jordan's Blog: From Harriet](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=310#3)

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

Here is his final interview, given to the local newspaper. Notice the date:

> **Robert Jordan aims to get back on feet**
>
> #### BILL THOMPSON
>
> Thursday, September 13, 2007
>
> Jim Rigney intends to "keep marching to the horizon." Stage One is getting back on his feet.
>
> Known to millions of readers as Robert Jordan, the best-selling author of "The Wheel of Time" fantasy series continues to cross swords with the rare blood disease amyloidosis, a progressive disorder he was first diagnosed with in December 2005 at the Medical University of South Carolina.
>
> Subsequently, the author has been undergoing treatment at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
>
> Rigney reports that with the help of the Mayo Clinic, he is keeping things under control.
>
> #### ROBERT JORDAN
>
> "My numbers are still good, in the normal range. We will be going back up to the Mayo in about a month and we'll see what the status is. Now I just have to get my foot healed up so I have a chance of getting out of this wheelchair. Strange to think that my foot, of all things, would be giving me the most trouble. It's getting better, but unfortunately the amyloidosis makes healing go very slowly.
>
> "When I get the foot better then I can start on the process of walking again. I hope to do this in another two or three months."
>
> #### BILL THOMPSON
>
> While there has been no improvement in heart function and no change in his overall prognosis as of June, Rigney says improvement remains possible. And he's determined.
>
> #### ROBERT JORDAN
>
> "I've got promises to keep."

#### HARRIET MCDOUGAL RIGNEY

And he did march, guys. He marched toward that horizon until he crossed it, where we cannot follow yet.

The word now, the only possible word, is Onward.

Go for it. With love.

Consider yourselves hugged.
  
Harriet

