# [Interview #577: Utopiales Convention, Nantes, France: Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=577#3)

#### Question

You are a very prolific writer. Your agenda seems to be full for the next 10 years! It might be a silly question, but how do you manage to find the time to write so much?

#### Brandon Sanderson

For me, it's generally a question of: how do I make sure in my life I'm doing other things? Writing is what I am and what I do. I don't generally go seek entertainment; I don't do these things because writing is so fulfulling for me it's hard for other things to compete.

And so, I have a lot of ideas that I feel very compelled to get down on the page, and I relax by writing. I generally relax by writing things I'm not supposed to be writing. So when you see what I publish, generally what's happening is you'll see a major main novel that I'm working on, that I feel is important; it's part of what I'm trying to do, kind of as my name: this is who I am, this is what I'm trying to say. And then you'll see side projects that are random and insane, and sometimes very spontaneous and fun and different. And those are done as ways to relax from the main series. If you look at my French publications, you'll see that I have the
*Alcatraz*
series for young adults, and that grew out of me reacting and responding to myself, wanting to have something to relax doing. So that was my recreation.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*