# [Interview #733: Wanderer Fantasy Convention - Interview with Robert Jordan, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=733#1)

#### Tahir Velimeev

In late September of last year in St. Petersburg, the Fifth Science Fiction Convention in Russia took place, members of which were many Russian science fiction writers, critics and simple fans of science fiction. Some well-known American science fiction writers were invited as guests of the Congress: Lois McMaster Bujold, Alan Dean Foster and Robert Jordan. Conversations with the first two writers have been published in
*Ozone*
, but Robert Jordan for some reason, dropped out of sight of our interviewers. This interview to some extent fills this gap. It includes some of the questions asked by Russian readers and journalists at meetings with the writer as well as a news conference. In addition, much has been gleaned from personal communication with Robert Jordan, including questions by e-mail. (Yours truly participated in the "Wanderer" as one of the members of the organizing committee, and had the opportunity to talk a lot with the writer in an informal setting.) Frankly, even the first meeting with him made a strong impression: a tall, big man with a luxuriant beard, dark glasses and wide-brimmed hat; his confident gait did not prevent a heavy cane, on his hand dimly glittering rings, signets ... A sort of colorful plantation Southerner ...

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*