# [Interview #733, Entry #6]: Wanderer Fantasy Convention - Interview with Robert Jordan](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=733#6)

#### Tahir Velimeev

Anyway, in 1990 a novel was printed that subsequently brought worldwide fame to the author:
*The Eye of the World*
. A year later
*The Great Hunt*
appeared (in Russian, the two works appeared in 1996). Since then, readers have been looking forward to and awaiting the release of new volumes in the magnificent fantasy epic. I can say without exaggeration that all fans of your creation are haunted by one little question: How many books will be in The Wheel of Time series?

#### Robert Jordan

Honestly, I don’t know. When I first started working about fifteen years ago, I assumed that there would be four or five books. Then, I understood that I could not fit my work within these limits.

#### Tahir Velimeev

On one internet site I came across information that the Wheel of Time will consist of ten volumes.

#### Robert Jordan

Well, it's not entirely true. I think the number will be greater. You see, every book is devoted to certain events that occur with Rand and the other heroes of the series. The plot, of course, is undergoing changes to the original plan, so sometimes it is necessary to sacrifice some things. Attentive readers may have noticed that Rand, after appearing at the beginning of the novels, only comes again to the forefront at the very end of the books ... I think, to complete the entire story I need to write three or four more volumes. In the summer of 2000, I completed and passed to the publishing house TOR a new, ninth book, which is called
*Winter's Heart*
, and it came out on November 7th. Let's hope there will soon be a Russian translation.

