# [Interview #316, Entry #1]: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Brandon to Finish Wheel of Time](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=316#1)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Here's the news I promised you! I have been asked to finish the last book of The Wheel of Time by Robert Jordan. Press Release follows!

We'd really like news of this to get out to the fans so that they know we're working on the book. Mr. Jordan left detailed notes, and readers need not fear. The Wheel of Time will continue to turn.

There is an interview with me over at Dragonmount explaining things in more detail.

Please visit my forums for a discussion of this event and places we're getting the word out.

Also, know that my Livejournal has comments enabled, if you want to leave me a note.

——-Press Release——

Tor Books announced today that novelist Brandon Sanderson has been chosen to finish writing the final novel in Robert Jordan's bestselling Wheel of Time fantasy series. Jordan—described by some as Tolkien's heir—died Sept. 16 from a rare blood disease. The new novel,
*A Memory of Light*
, will be the 12th and final book in the fantasy series which has sold more than 14 million copies in North America and more than 30 million copies worldwide. The last four books in the series were all #1 New York Times bestsellers.

Harriet Popham Rigney, Jordan's widow and editor, chose Sanderson to complete
*A Memory of Light*
—which Jordan worked on almost daily for the last few months of his life—and will edit it. Rigney said some scenes from the book were completed by Jordan before his death, and some exist in draft form. "He left copious notes and hours of audio recordings," she said. He also revealed details about the end of the series to close members of his family.

Sanderson, who acknowledged Jordan as an inspiration to him as a writer, has established a loyal fan base as the author of three fantasy novels:
*Elantris*
, Mistborn and
*The Well of Ascension*
(Tor), as well as a YA novel,
*Alcatraz Versus the Evil Librarians*
(Scholastic Press). Sanderson said, "I'm both extremely excited and daunted by this opportunity. There is only one man who could have done this book the way it deserved to be written, and we lost him in September. However, I promise to do my very best to remain true to Mr. Jordan's vision and produce the book we have all been waiting to read."

*A Memory of Light*
is scheduled for publication in fall 2009.

