# [Interview #403: AOL Chat 2, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=403#1)

#### Online Host

Your host for tonight is CSEmcee1 (Norma II).

Robert Jordan is a lifelong resident of Charleston, SC who served two tours of duty in Vietnam and received a degree in physics from The Citadel, the military college of South Carolina.

When a injury sidelined him from a career as a nuclear engineer for the Navy more than a dozen years ago, he became a voracious reader, and the frustration with the quality of fiction he was reading drove him to begin writing himself.

An avid history buff, Jordan is particularly interested in military history, and Charleston's past. He and his wife live in the Old Historic District of Charleston. The outdoorsman enjoys hunting, fishing, and sailing, and the indoor games of poker, chess and pool.

Why are Jordan's books so popular? Look at the phenomenon of epic fantasy itself. When Tolkien's novels burst on the scene in the '60s, the fantasy genre was virtually unheard of. But his stories of hobbits and dark evils caught on. Without question The Lord of the Rings is nothing less than amazing.

Countless readers fell in love with the chronicles of Tolkien's Middle Earth, and responded to it on a level that transcends mere entertainment. Then came Jordan. And with him, another popular cultural phenomenon—The Wheel of Time!

Lest his fans despair, he wants them to know that even when he's on the road during is current tour, he is hard at work on his seventh (yet untitled) volume of The Wheel of Time. America Online is pleased to present perhaps the most-discussed author on the Internet, Robert Jordan!

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*