# [Interview #936: AMOL Signing Report - James, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=936#1)

#### James

Hi, I'm James, and I'm the First Among Equals for the Seattle
*A Memory of Light*
signing! The event itself was pretty huge, and we each had some pretty unique experiences, so I figure that the best way to give a run-down of the event is for each of the Memory Keepers to come in and make a post about their own experience at the event.

I got to the bookstore a little before 4pm, and Eric and Jeff S. were already there chatting it up about The Wheel of Time (because what else would we talk about?). I had my friend Melody with me, who would later prove instrumental in getting things done at the event.

Jeff S. had already spoken with someone at the bookstore, and they said to just chill out in the cafe, and they'd come and get us when they needed us, so we sat down and just chatted for a little while. One by one the other Memory Keepers showed up, with the exception of one, unfortunately.

Duane and Eileen from the bookstore came down and said that they needed a couple of people to help carry stock over to the site, which was just across the street, so a couple Memory Keepers went over there and helped with that while the rest of us kind of made our way over on our own.

After arriving at the site, we helped set up the books, as well as rearranged some other furniture for the ticket table and the signing table. We had to drag a couple others over from the other room to put the swag on. Alice had brought over some cool stuff from previous signings, and they were definitely a big hit.

At about 5:30pm or so, we realized that the other Memory Keeper wasn't going to make an appearance, so my friend Melody stepped in and took over for him. Although the shirt was a couple of sizes too large for her, she still had a great time.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*