# [Interview #1053: Outline: The Eye of the World, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1053#2)

#### Robert Jordan

Rand al'Thor is, he believes, the son of the widowed farmer and sheepherder, Tam al'Thor, with whom he lives outside a small village, Emond's Field. The village lies in an area bounded on the west by the Mountains of Mist, on the south by the White River [So called because it is full of rapids. Ii {
*sic*
} is also broad. In ancient tongue it was called, as still is to the east, Etheralell, waters of the Mountain Home] and on the north by the River Taren. [NOTE: The stream which flows away from Emond's Field, on which the mill stands below the village, is called the Winespring Water. It comes from a spring called Winespring (in the village, in the center of the village green, with a footbridge), the waters of which are so cool and sweet and refreshing as to be as intoxicating as wine.] These two rivers join about fifty miles east of Emond's Field. Emond's Field is isolated from the world, by custom as well as by geography, as are the neighboring villages. Few people leave the district, and fewer still of those return once gone. The area is called by locals Two Rivers, and contains four villages: Emond's Field, Roundhill, Parry Coomb, and Taren Ferry (the smallest).

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*