# [Interview #432: Geekerati Radio - Brandon Sanderson Talks Fantasy, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=432#1)

#### Christian Lindke

Good evening, and welcome to Geekerati. You're online with Christian Lindke, Eric Leidel, and our special guest this evening, Brandon Sanderson. Brandon Sanderson is a fantasy author who exploded onto the fantasy/science fiction scene in 2005 with his novel
*Elantris*
. He's followed it up with a trilogy of Mistborn novels, a mid-grade youth fiction series based on a character called Alcatraz; the first book in that series is called
*Alcatraz vs the Evil Librarians*
, and an online writing-experiment-turned-published-novel called
*Warbreaker*
, in addition to being selected to work on the Wheel of Time series, Robert Jordan's big epic fantasy series. [baby crying in background] If you can hold on for one second, I will wave to my daughter so that she'll cheer up a little bit, and hopefully we'll be okay. One of the things about having twins and having to isolate oneself from them when you're doing a podcast is if they wander in and see that you are [?], they are less than pleased. Good evening, Brandon. And welcome to Geekerati.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Thank you Christian. I'm happy to be here.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*