# [Interview #432: Geekerati Radio - Brandon Sanderson Talks Fantasy, Entry #10](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=432#10)

#### Christian Lindke

I'm going to have to sign out for the evening; I think this is a good place to wrap up. Next week we should have, as our guest, Professor Scott Nokes. He's our popular medievalist expert from Troy University. He's going to be talking about the most recent "Tolkien" endbook to come out, which is the book in which Tolkien's son published Professor Tolkien's two new Lays of the sagas of Sigurd and Gudrun, so they're kind of his version of "Nibelungenlied", written in a poetic format in the style of the old Norse
*Eddas*
but in a modern language. So it does have an interesting appeal, and we'll talk about what that means for popular medievalism, and things of that nature. I want to thank Brandon for joining us this evening. Thank you very much for being on our show, Brandon.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Ah, no problem; thanks for having me!

#### CHRISTIAN LINDKE

And to let you know that if you ever do decide to release your home-brew rules for your RPG as a lulu, that I'll likely purchase them. (laughs)

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I've actually considered it, so we'll see. We'll see if I ever have the time to write all of this up. It's pretty screwy.

#### CHRISTIAN LINDKE

Sure, yeah. It might be interesting to see. But thank you. This is Christian Lindke signing out. I'd also like to thank Bill and Eric for joining us this evening, and I will see you all next week. Have a great, geek-filled week.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*