# [Interview #717: Dragonmount Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=717#3)

#### Jason Denzel

The Big Question most fans probably have is: "Why Brandon Sanderson?" What are your thoughts on this?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Well. . . there are a lot of ways to answer that. First, I'll note that I'm still reeling about this news myself. I stop occasionally and think "Wait, am I REALLY doing this?" It seems incredible to me, so I can understand why fans might think "Brandon Sanderson, why him?"

The first way I could answer that question is by giving a list of my writing credentials. I know how to write fantasy books. I understand how to plot over a long epic book, and my novels have been very well received by both reviewers and fantasy fans. I write epics after the flair of the Wheel of Time, yet my books (I hope) aren't just a copies of what Robert Jordan and others have written. I think that's important. I've read fantasy since I was a kid, and I understand what made these books great.

However, I'm not sure if credentials are main reason I was chosen for this project.

A second answer to that question might be this: "Why Brandon Sanderson? Because he's as much a fan of the series as you are." I've been with The Wheel of Time since the paperback release of
*The Eye of the World*
back when I was fifteen years old. I've read the early books of the series through six or seven times now. I'm the guy who was in the right position to help out on this project: I have both the skill to accomplish the task and a deep love of the series.

Again, though, I'm not sure if that's the right answer.

The right answer, then, is probably this third one: "Why Brandon Sanderson? Because he's the one Harriet chose."

Harriet was given full authority over this matter. It was her decision. While others gave her some suggestions, she's now the ultimate authority over anything relating to The Wheel of Time. She read my book Mistborn, and from doing so picked me to write
*A Memory of Light*
. (And I think that leads right into the next question.)

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*