# [Interview #717: Dragonmount Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=717#8)

#### Jason Denzel

In what ways do you think you'll have to shift your writing style to match Robert Jordan's? Will you be trying to write in his "voice", or will you approach the novel with your own?

#### Brandon Sanderson

To attempt an exact copy of his style would, I think, be the wrong move. If I did it poorly, it would feel like an awkward parody. Yet, at the same time, there are some very important reasons people love these books. Depth of setting, detailed descriptions, and complex and lengthy characterizations are all hallmarks of Mr. Jordan's style.

So, I think it will need to be a balance. I intend to be more detailed in my descriptions and linger a little bit longer on side characters than I do in my own work. However, I am not Robert Jordan, and the fans know that. Every author is different, and I think that my style will indeed influence how the text and ideas are presented.

Tor could have hired a ghost writer to do this book, and then could have released it under Mr. Jordan's name only, pretending that the book was nearly finished by the time of Mr. Jordan's death. I think it is to their credit that they didn't. Readers deserve to know what they are getting. My goal will be to stay true to the themes, characters, concepts, and general stylistic choices that made these books so successful without trying to mimic the smaller details of his style.

