# [Interview #15: Letter to Tom McCormick, Entry #10](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=15#10)

#### Question

I have found and read your Conan books, however are there any other books that you have had published and are there any other books unrelated to
*The Wheel of Time*
that you are working on?

#### Robert Jordan

I have been a writer for seventeen years now, and have had a number of other books published (Westerns, international intrigue, historical fiction), as well as essays, dance review and theater criticism, but no other fantasy save the Conan novels. I've written only one piece of short fiction in my life, aside from school assignments, and it was never published. I will probably write in those other genres again from time to time; I enjoy them. I am working on something unconnected with
*The Wheel of Time*
, though I have not yet begun writing it. (Books percolate about in my head for a long time before anything goes onto paper.) It will be the next thing after
*The Wheel*
is complete. It will be fantasy, in a different universe than
*The Wheel*
.

My editor says it will be people's chance to see a society like the Seanchan Empire, but that is simply because most of the action will take place in a culture much like Seanchan. The main male character, who is shipwrecked there, comes from a place that might he considered a cross between Elizabethan England and the Italian city-states of the Renaissance with touches of the seventeenth century. I intend him to be a man in his thirties, a man of some experience and worldliness in his own culture (though this does him only occasional good where he finds himself), in contrast to Rand's innocence and naivete. The major female character is a noblewoman of the land where he is shipwrecked; by the law, whatever is cast up on the shores of her estates belongs to her: the ship, its cargo—its crew. Of course, a good many details will surely change between now and the commencement of writing (they always do), but that is the general form. No working title yet beyond
*Shipwreck*
. I expect to do the story in two or possibly three books.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*