# [Interview #989: Brandon Sanderson and Harriet McDougal at Microsoft Research, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=989#2)

#### Brian Hill

My name is Brian Hill, and it is my pleasure to welcome our guest and welcome all of you. I am a developer in the Office Division, so this is not my normal thing of organizing these events. I got an email from somebody at Tor last week saying, can you host this author in March? And I had to say I'm sorry, no. But for Brandon, I'm happen to go to the extra trouble.

I would like to thank a few people. I would like to thank Amy Draves and the Microsoft Research Visiting Speakers Series for providing this venue. They are filming this for broadcast into the overflow room if you have trouble finding a seat, and also if people are tuning in from around the company.

If you would like to learn more about the Visiting Speaker Series and come to see other authors and dignitaries, please join one of the speaker aliases: speaker two, speaker three, four, five and six, and they wrote that up on the board, and then you'll get notifications of other events.

I'd also like to thank Tor. Tor has sent us some goodies that we'll be raffling off at the end. We've got some backpacks and some paperbacks of
*The Way of Kings*
.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, so those of you watching, run on down here. You might be able to win something.

#### Brian Hill

Yeah, you heard him. We also have some more bookmarks. We've got
*Rithmatist*
bookmarks, especially for anybody with young readers. Brandon will talk a little bit more about his upcoming books when I let him speak.

[laughter]

#### Brian Hill

Also, I would like to thank Dwayne and the University Bookstore. They have been long time supporters of Brandon Sanderson, and they make it possible each year for Brandon to come to Seattle, which makes it possible for him to come and join us. I've known Brandon for five or six years. I met him during one of the Mistborn book tours, and this is a second time that he's come to Microsoft. I'm grateful to him for doing that.

He brought with him a special guest which many of you recognize—the wife of Robert Jordan, Harriet McDougal, will be speaking a little bit as well. She has a long career in editing. She was the editor for all of the Wheel of Time books, as well as other books that you may have read. So since you really have come to hear them, I will turn the time over to Brandon and Harriet.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Thank you.

[applause]

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*