# [Interview #944: Reddit 2013 (Non-WoT), Entry #22](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=944#22)

#### [Lebal (March 2013)](http://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/1b3zx8/brandon_sanderson_yet_again_fails_to_prove_he_is/c93eqej)

Wait wait, so it is a book [
*Steelheart*
] about a magical upper class and a lower class who rebels against them? But I already read Mistborn!

#### Brandon Sanderson

You know, I honestly worry about this a lot. Perhaps more than I should. I don't want to start repeating myself.

This was one of those "Write it by instinct" books. The idea was too awesome to ignore. Basically, it's the story of what happens if people in our world started getting superpowers, but only evil people got them. Story is about a group of people who fight back by assassinating people with superpowers by researching their weaknesses, then laying a trap and taking them out.

However, it DOES share similarities to Mistborn. Much as
*Warbreaker*
and
*Elantris*
share a worldbuilding premise. We shall see, after readers get it, if I'm repeating myself too much. It's hard when you've got an awesome story you want to tell, but also want each series to have its individual identity.

#### rockeh

| what happens if people in our world started getting superpowers, but only evil people got them

Is that the case, or rather a more cynical approach to 'power corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely'?

#### Brandon Sanderson

That very question is actually a plot point in the story.

#### rockeh

Oh wow. The book's not even out, and I managed to spoil it...

#### Brandon Sanderson

Ha. No, you're not spoiling it. What I mean is, very early in the book, people ask the same question you did. Is the way they act caused by them having too much power, or is it because certain types of people got the powers in the first place. It's not a spoiler to ask the question.

The origin of this story has to do with me, driving along, and getting cut off in traffic. I thought to myself, "Buddy, you're glad I don't have superpowers, because I'd totally blow your car off the road right now."

My immediate reactions made me start thinking about what would actually happen if some people had those kinds of powers.

#### [Batblib](http://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/1b3zx8/brandon_sanderson_yet_again_fails_to_prove_he_is/c93mzi2)

This sounds really cool and I look forward to reading it! One thing I wonder about though, is how you fit this into the shard multiverse? I'll be honest and admit I'm not totally up to speed on all your books and all the meta-lore, but as far as I knew you had a pre-set number of possible worlds, all created by some unique piece of shard from a larger whole, right?

So for this idea, did you happen to have a specific shard available that fit with the world, did you have an "undefined" shard you could use, or is this something separated entirely from the multiverse setting? Really curious about this as this whole concept as I know of it of the multiverse is really intriguing.

Anyway, thanks for being an awesome writer, from a fan!

#### Brandon Sanderson

So far, most of my deviation novels (Alcatraz,
*Steelheart*
,
*The Rithmatist*
) have not been part of the shared universe. Part of taking a 'breather' is letting my mind run free without continuity restrictions.

Often, good restrictions can make for a more impressive story, but sometimes you have to be able to do whatever occurs to you, even if it doesn't fit the shared cosmology. So,
*Steelheart*
is not a shard novel. I HAVE set apart plenty of places that are less defined that I can tell shard stories in, but this isn't one of them.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*