# [Interview #944, Entry #35]: Reddit 2013 (Non-WoT)](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=944#35)

#### [danielsmith46 (September 2013)](http://www.reddit.com/r/Mistborn/comments/1mxzh8/cheap_way_to_get_the_ebooks/?sort=old)

Cheap way to get the e-books?

I have bought the Mistborn trilogy in book and audiobook form. I want to get an e-book version of them as well, anybody know of a cheaper way to do this than just paying another $16 to Amazon for the e-books? It's not that I'm not willing to do that, it's just that I have already paid for these books, and it's annoying to pay all over again just to get them in another format that doesn't cost the author anything to produce! I know, Brandon Sanderson is selling them on Amazon with no DRM, and that's awesome, but...I just feel gipped paying the money just so I can have it on my phone as well as the actual physical books.

#### Brandon Sanderson

I don't have the rights to send you these for free, as I sold ebook rights to Tor way back when. That said, I have no personal problem with people...ahem...finding them through other means, so long as they have the physical books in their possession.

Wish I could do more. I'm trying hard to get Tor to agree to let me send ebooks to those who buy the physical books. I feel they'll budge on this eventually, but so far, I haven't gotten permission.

#### danielsmith46

Wow, and this is part of why you are my favorite author! Your involvement with your fans...and of course, the awesome books.

Seeing your response, I would rather buy another set through Amazon to give to a friend, and get the e-books via the Amazon MatchBook thing mentioned above. Spreading the good books and such. Do you know if Matchbook will be applicable to your books?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I will make ever effort to get Tor to agree to make my books Matchbook enabled. I don't think they'll have a problem with it. (I've been making noise for years, trying to get them to do something like this, and they've complained about logistics.)

