# [Interview #687: Mormon Writers Symposium: Brandon Sanderson, Entry #16](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=687#16)

#### Kaimi Wenger

Recently, there seems to have been a resurgence in the fantasy genre. The Lord of the Rings movies were quite successful; more recently,
*Eragon*
was in theaters. Are we going to see
*Elantris*
, the movie, any time soon? Who would you cast as Raoden? How about Sarene? Hrathen? (And is it too early to start looking around for actors for Vin, Kelsier, Vasher, Vivena . . . ?)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Ha! As for casting choices, I would direct curious parties to the threads on my forums about this topic. I can't really say who I'd pick, since it takes so long to make a movie. And, to be honest, I have trouble imagining ANY actor in my character roles. They are who they are in my head! An actor wouldn't be them to me.

Not that I wouldn't sell movie rights. Actually, we've had a few nibbles from various producers. As you've said, fantasy is hot. However, it's also very expensive to make a fantasy movie, so producers are wary about the projects they pick up. My kids' series,
*Alcatraz Versus the Evil Librarians*
, which starts this October with Scholastic, is probably the most likely to be made in the near future.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*