# [Interview #687: Mormon Writers Symposium: Brandon Sanderson, Entry #20](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=687#20)

#### Frank McIntyre

Mistborn was good.
*Elantris*
was better, I think. I have a pretty low tolerance for sex and gore in novels and neither of these bothered me. Both were very interesting fantasy that actually spent some time thinking about new ways a world could work.

#### JOHNNA CORNETT

Oh Frank, Mistborn is much better than
*Elantris*
, but then I'm prejudiced against zombies. And as an added bonus, Mistborn had the best cover art ever—that unusual angle, so intriguing, and not contra the text as book covers so often are. In fact, after I finished the book I could see, in retrospect, that the cover depicts an important plot point at the end of the book—what a fabulous Easter egg is that!

It's fun that my oldest child is now old enough to pass my books too. We both love Mistborn. No undue influence from the woman who houses and feeds her, I assume. She wrote one of her big literature projects on Mistborn this year.

#### Brandon Sanderson

The
*Elantris*
vs Mistborn debate: To be honest, I expected this. The books are actually rather different. I think the same audience will enjoy them both, but I fully expect some readers to like the philosophy and metaphorical nature of
*Elantris*
, while others will like the action of Mistborn. Just wait until Alcatraz hits—it's quite different too, and I don't know what people are going to think of it.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*