# [Interview #687: Mormon Writers Symposium: Brandon Sanderson, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=687#7)

#### Kaimi Wenger

You
[just released
*Warbreaker*
on the Internet](http://www.brandonsanderson.com/blog.php?date=1178866800)
. Some other speculative fiction authors (such as Cory Doctorow and John Scalzi) have had some success with net-released material. What are you hoping to accomplish with
*Warbreaker*
online? (And how does the intellectual property work with that, anyway?)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Well, before I gave this a try, I spoke with Cory and with my editor at Tor. I didn't want to do anything that would jeopardize the book being published. However, the people at Tor felt that it would be good exposure, and a good way to interact with the fans. So, we went ahead with the project.

I had (have) several goals with this project. First off, I wanted to give something as a free preview of my work on my website. I figure that the people who support an author's writing addiction are usually the hardcore fans who read everything the put out. The more people I can convince to TRY my work, the more long-term readers I'll pick up. So, if I give one book away for free, maybe those who read it will end up buying and reading my other books.

Secondly, I really did want to offer something as a "thank you" to those who've already read my works. If I'd just wanted a freebie on my site, I would have simply posted the finished
*Warbreaker*
about the same time that I released it in hardback. (This is what Cory does.) However, I get so much email from people asking about my writing process that I figured the best way to help out in this manner was to simply SHOW how I do it. So, I began posting early drafts of
*Warbreaker*
, followed by later ones, and so forth. My goal is to post each draft, then finally post the notes program I worked from, allowing people to see the process of how I develop a book.

As for rights, I'm really not worried. Tor is fine publishing the book anyway (they agree that right now, it's better to give a novel away for free and hook more readers.) I've indicated that people aren't allowed to sell
*Warbreaker*
copies, or to make money off of the setting. That's all that really matters, as far as I'm concerned.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*