# [Interview #13: Waldenbooks Hailing Frequency Interview, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=13#1)

#### Hailing Frequency

Hailing Frequency interview featured in the Walden Books sci-fi/fantasy newsletter, issue 4 in October/November of 1993.

Readers who like their fantasy on the grand scale, with a large cast of characters, a far-ranging geography, and a deeply layered history have been turning to Robert Jordan's epic, "The Wheel of Time," of which
*The Shadow Rising*
is the fourth installment. (Previous volumes include
*The Eye of the World*
,
*The Great Hunt*
, and
*The Dragon Reborn*
, all from Tor.) The series is abundantly complex and resonates with depth, so recently when we asked Robert Jordan for a
*brief*
summary of the action to date, the author laughed.

#### Robert Jordan

I don't think it's possible to summarize the story briefly. There's too much going on. For the last book,
*The Dragon Reborn*
, the publisher asked me for a synopsis of the first two books; it was to be sent out with review copies in case the reviewer had not read them. The synopsis was seven or eight pages long—I could not get it down any further. My editor tried to cut it down some, too, but she couldn't find a way to take out more than a page or so on each book.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*