# [Interview #938: AMOL Signing Report - Anna Hornbostel, Entry #12](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=938#12)

#### Question

For us, we get the benefit of the worlds that you and Robert Jordan built, but what is it personally like for you to build such an expansive world and to build a life?

#### Brandon Sanderson

For me, what is it like to build such an expansive world and to create it? It's . . . I don't know, what is it like? It's what I do. You know, it's what I've done since I was a kid, and I've just found a productive outlet for it instead of an unproductive outlet. Which . . . the unproductive outlet was sitting in my classes, dreaming of these things, creating little notebooks full of notes about them, and not paying attention in class. I got into a lot of trouble for that. And, what is it like? It's supremely satisfying. It feels like the true creative process of taking nothing—blank pages—and being done and having them be something. That is awesome. And it's a really special something, because it's something that's going to create something in your mind. Those pages are really nothing, really. They're words, but they're abstractions. But I get to take what's in my mind, create these words, put them there. And then you will do this, and you'll see a picture in your head. That's amazing. It's a painting that's never existed except in my head, and then it's like telepathy—I'm projecting it into your head. It's awesome, it's incredible, and it's what I love to do. And I'm just very, very blessed and very, very lucky that I've found a way that I can continue to do this and still have food for my family.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*