# [Interview #938: AMOL Signing Report - Anna Hornbostel, Entry #17](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=938#17)

#### Brandon Sanderson

All right, let's go over here—the hat.

#### Question

Hi, I'm the hat. This is a question for Harriet. And I'm wondering if you had an opportunity to witness the role-playing sessions that occurred with Jim and his friends, well to sort of play out the books, and ways things could go, and if so, what they were like? And if not, did you just hate the fact that he was doing it?

#### Harriet McDougal

If they were, did I just hate . . . ?

#### Question

Well, if the reason that you didn't like them was that he was spending time away from you and you would just rather be . . . (laughter)

#### Brandon Sanderson

All right. I'll just let you go into this one.

#### Harriet McDougal

He only played . . . well, he played Dungeons and Dragons, not on his own, with my son—his step-son. Jim and I married when my son was twelve. And his best friend whose name was Thomas—Thomas was just writing to me from Switzerland where he lives now—Jim just whipped them, left, right, and center, every time they played, mercilessly. And of course I didn't care. Because he was doing what gave him pleasure, and it certainly gave the boys pleasure. But that was pretty much the extent of his role-playing games. I played a lot of "Snakebite". Does anybody remember that? On the ancient computer? No, I see you don't. (laughter)

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*