# [Interview #385: BookBanter Interview, Entry #10](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=385#10)

#### Alex C. Telander

And I know you mentioned that this one, the children's series, has been optioned, you said, by Dreamworks?

#### Brandon Sanderson

It has been. Optioned by Dreamworks Animation.

#### ALEX C. TELANDER

And, how about any of your other books?

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I've had offers on Mistborn, actually offers on Mistborn and on
*Elantris*
, that we have turned down. We're searching for the right project to do it. If I get the right—meaning somebody that I really think could make it—the people who offered on it before, I didn't think could actually make the movie. We had the feeling they were just trying to snatch up rights to keep a hold of them, and then hopefully it would get big and they could resell them later. They didn't seem like they were serious about making a movie. Fortunately, I'm in the position in life where I just don’t have to take the money. If someone offers me money, I can actually afford to say no. And in this case, I said no. With Dreamworks, it's a great company. They've done the Shrek movies, Kung Fu Panda. It was a great director, the director who directed
*Over the Hedge*
. And the producer was one of the producers on the Lemony Snicket movie. And I just thought, these guys can actually make a movie, they can make a good one. So we said yes.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*