# [Interview #385: BookBanter Interview, Entry #15](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=385#15)

#### Alex C. Telander

Do you have any hobbies?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, yeah. It's actually a little bit embarrassing. I play Magic: The Gathering, which is kind of the nerdiest game ever invented.

#### ALEX C. TELANDER

Well, that's not too surprising. George R. R. Martin started as a dungeon master.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I do role play a little bit, but Magic's probably my hobby. I actually decided a few years back that I needed a hobby. I had to have one because otherwise I would write all the time. And I needed something to balance out my life, so I dug out my cards from my youth and started playing again, got my friends back into it. And we do it mostly as a social thing. It's really fun, though. So, there's my hobby. Somewhat, obviously, self-hatingly, but yeah.

#### ALEX C. TELANDER

Well, I know Christopher Paolini makes swords . . . [not clear] . . . and stuff like that.

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I was on tour here and someone actually gave me a couple of cards. Yeah, it brings out my complete inner geek when someone shows up and says, "Here's some cards for you." I'm like, "Oh . . . I can't believe it, cards!"

#### ALEX C. TELANDER

That's great.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*