# [Interview #385: BookBanter Interview, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=385#5)

#### Alex C. Telander

What was the beginning spark that gave you the idea for
*Elantris*
?

#### Brandon Sanderson

The beginning spark was reading, actually, about people in the olden days who would be quarantined together because of their disease.

#### ALEX C. TELANDER

The plague and stuff like that?

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Yeah, locked in a building because of the plague, or even leper colonies—forced to live only among other people with their same disease—and that would probably be the seed that made me want to write a book. Now, I put it in a fantasy world because I wanted to tell a story about a magical disease. It actually started more as an 'undeath' sort of thing, and then evolved into a magical hybrid between leprosy and undeath that people could catch, and the story of what it's like to have to live with this disease. Almost a little bit of wanting to tell to a story that was a put together the mystery, the pieces, of what made the disease take in the first place. Maybe a magical version of
*Andromeda Strain*
, or something like this.

#### ALEX C. TELANDER

Right, right. Yeah, that's what I like about it, because you go straight in the beginning, you're in the guy's head, and he's trying to figure out what is going on and not taking the answer of we've got it and we're doomed sort of thing.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*