# [Interview #623: Fantasy Magazine Interview - Leigh Butler, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=623#3)

#### Leigh Butler

And what is
*The Rithmatist*
? Can you tell me a little about it?

#### Brandon Sanderson

*The Rithmatist*
is a YA novel I wrote in 2007, right before the Wheel of Time deal hit me like a freight train. And because I was so busy with that, I didn't have time to get back to
*The Rithmatist*
and play with it, and I'm only now getting to the point where I'll be able to do some revisions and things, because I've been breakneck these last few years and we're only now slowing down a little. Tor's going to publish it, but the release is probably a few years off because of the workload involved with the Wheel of Time.

But it's a really fun book. I wrote it when I was supposed to be working on other things back in 2007, and it's actually gearpunk—which is not steampunk, but more Da Vinci-era technology, extrapolated hundreds of years into the future. It's very whimsical; it's about a boy who goes to magic school, which you've seen before, except that he doesn't have any magical powers, and it's not something you can learn in this world. He only gets in because his mother is a cleaning lady who works at the school, so he gets free tuition.

So he goes to get a world-class education, but he doesn't go to the magic classes, just all the other classes. It's like a private school that also happens to train wizards. I don't want to get too much into it, but the magic is chalkboard-based; you draw these very elaborate designs that do certain things, and you kind of duel with it. It's kind of like playing magical chalkboard Starcraft, in a gearpunk world, told through the eyes of the unmagical son of the cleaning lady. It's very fun.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*