# [Interview #623, Entry #5]: Fantasy Magazine Interview - Leigh Butler](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=623#5)

#### Leigh Butler

So let's talk about the other major epic you’re involved in, which of course is the Wheel of Time. How do you feel in general about the way the series is going? Are you pleased with the reception of
*The Gathering Storm*
and
*Towers of Midnight*
(the twelfth and thirteenth books in the series, respectively)? Are you confident that it’s going the way you want it to go?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Of course I'm very pleased at the reception of
*The Gathering Storm*
and
*Towers of Midnight*
, because when I first started working on this, I had visions of Wheel of Time fans burning down my house.

(
*Laughs.*
) Well, Wheel of Time fans are very hardcore! I actually received a number of very politely phrased threats, with a little smiley at the end. You know, you're just not sure how to take the "I'm very glad someone's finishing this. By the way, if you screw it up I'll burn your house down. Smile smile, wink wink, we're all behind you!" So the fans can be really daunting, and working on this was really daunting for me, since I've been reading these books since I was a kid. But I'm very pleased to not have had my house burned down.

I'm still very aware of the mistakes I make, and I'm also very aware that this is not my series; this is not me, it doesn't belong to me. And every time I make one of these mistakes, it reinforces the idea that these are Robert Jordan's books, and I'm a last-minute pinch hitter. I'm not someone who sauntered in to take it over and make it his own.

So am I pleased? Yes I am, but at the same time there's still that sense that I'm doing something that I wish didn't need to be done, which leaves it as a very weird situation still. I'm very happy that, in general, people have liked the books, and I am sad to have failed those who felt that they don't work, because there are those who my efforts are not going to be enough for. But overall, the reception has been very positive.

But I wouldn't say I'm confident; I don't think this is the sort of thing I can be confident about. Though I suppose I can be; I'm confident that I was the right choice, that if someone was going to have to do this, that I was the right one to pick. And I'm confident in the storytelling choices I made, yet at the same time I know that I don’t 100% belong here.

So it's a very hard question for me to answer for those reasons, but I hope that what I'm doing and what I'm striving to do with this last book will get the story to the closest way that Robert Jordan would have done if he were here. And I just hope we can all get the ending we want to read.

