# [Interview #729: Interview with Brandon Sanderson - A Dribble of Ink, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=729#5)

#### Aidan Moher

Your web site mentions that
*Elantris*
was the sixth novel that you had written, yet the first to be published. What do you think it was about
*Elantris*
and the Mistborn novels that managed to capture the attention of a publisher in a way that the precluding novels did not?

#### Brandon Sanderson

My first five books were very experimental. I wrote a comedy, a science fiction, a bunch of different types of things trying to figure out what I was good at and what I wanted to do. When I wrote
*Elantris*
I knew I wanted it to be an epic fantasy, and I'd had some practice writing in that style. Also, my big hang-up with my earlier works was editing. I'd finish a project and be so excited about going on to the next project that I wouldn't take the time necessary to make changes. By the time I wrote
*Elantris*
I'd learned how to revise, so when I sent it out it was a much more polished product. These two reasons, and the fact that it was a standalone, were what I think made
*Elantris*
sell when my earlier stuff did not. Mistborn was actually part of the two-book deal in the contract I got for
*Elantris*
, so the publisher bought it sight-unseen. Luckily, they liked it!

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*