# [Interview #482: Driving Mr. Sanderson - Matt Hatch, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=482#1)

#### Matt Hatch

Before we get to the Discussion...

I have to say that this trip was a small twist of fate in my favor; in the last week or two (or something) Tor inserted a short signing stop in Clayton, California as it had elsewhere along the Tour. Clayton not being on the initial official list meant no Storm Leaders were assigned to help out at what turned out to be a frenetic eighty-minute stop at a small gathering of thirty or forty fans at this delightful independent bookstore. Knowing that I would be in town to help out, had a rental car at my disposal and that I had previous experience working on these stops as a Storm Leader in Utah with Brandon, Jason asked if I would be willing to go up to Clayton to help out before the San Jose signing. I told him I would do one better, I’d be happy to chauffeur Brandon from Half Moon Bay to Clayton and then on to San Jose, so we weren’t doubling the amount of cars we had going up (my concern was purely for the betterment of the environment...). To my delight, Tor accepted my offer. What a fantastic opportunity. I had a chance to speak to Brandon without all of the chaos that typically surrounds him especially over this last month (and with the ability to accidentally get lost in the process). We had a great time—much laughter and discussion surrounding everything but Wheel of Time theories.

After leaving Clayton, another twenty or thirty minutes passed in a variety of discussions left over from the first leg of our trip, and I came to the realization that if I was going to ask Brandon anything about WoT, it would have to be sometime during the remaining thirty minutes before we arrived in San Jose. So, what follows is our discussion, based heavily on a list of questions I brought with me, that Brandon kindly let me record. Many of these questions may not interest you, although I’m guessing you will enjoy the entire conversation as a whole.

The Discussion

Note: I made small edits to some of our comments, the “um” and “oh didn’t think of that” kind of stuff. Once or twice I removed a sentence or two where we meandered away from the questions to make it more easily understood. I try to indicate those moments with [...], also I have added [comments] that came to mind as I transcribed this discussion.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*