# [Interview #510: Recap of JordanCon II - Richard Fife, Entry #10](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=510#10)

#### Richard Fife

After that panel I had my interview with Harriet out in the beautiful patio section behind the hotel, which was fun. After that, I went and poked my head into the sword-forms class, where people suddenly seemed to have a fixation on trying to beat the crap out of me, even though I wasn't there to actually fight. I hadn't even RickRoll'd them or anything! Some people, I swear.

We had the dinner break of the first day, and then I was drafted into the "Wheel of Time Interpretive Dance." Said dance was a very loony and somewhat drunk retelling of
*The Eye of the World*
in fifteen or so minutes. And I do mean somewhat drunk; I was encouraged to take some shots of whiskey prior to us starting, as were many others. My roles in this loveliness were both Fain and Thom, and oddly enough, no one seemed to mind that both characters were wearing a yellow shawl. And yet, when the gal playing Nynaeve asked me to let her borrow my shawl for the encore performance there was an uproar about how it was not canonical, as Nynaeve wouldn't be wearing a shawl yet. Also going on during the night was a Magic draft tourney with Brandon and the Texas Hold'em tourney for the Mayo Clinic charity, which actually raised $800 this year.

I hung around the room a bit afterwards, just chilling and chatting, until I was drafted in a goose-gander-switch-a-roo and found myself moderating a game of "Are You a Darkfriend?" If anyone wants the rules, I'll tell them to you down in the comments. It was actually really fun as I got to make up stories about the villagers on the spot and stretch my creative muscle, but gorram it, people are addicted to that game. I was moderating until almost two in the morning and remember how I woke up at 2:30 to get there? Yeah. We finally stopped as I cried and whimpered, and I did not even have the energy to stay up and chat with Wilson some. I did get a raincheck for an interview, though. My bed was blissfully comfortable.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*