# [Interview #510: Recap of JordanCon II - Richard Fife, Entry #24](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=510#24)

#### Richard Fife

Day 3: Sunday

I woke up around seven, refreshed but tense, and managed to make myself some coffee. I then went down to the volunteer's breakfast, where everyone drooled over my new friend. After the brunch, I went and found Wilson and the greater portion of the Family having breakfast, and I was invited to sit and join them. After some fun conversation, the "greater portion" took their leave and I reclaimed my interview with Wilson (despite Jason briefly interrupting and addressing me as "Mother" for how I was holding the staff and wearing my shawl).

Afterwards, I tagged along with Harriet to her room, where I managed to get her interview redone (and markedly better, I might add, which all of the interviews turned out to be) while she packed up. Note, by this time, I was coddling my recorder perhaps even more tenderly that I did either of my children when they were newborns. I left, already feeling cheerier, and then had to make a tough call: try to get the Maria and Alan interview jointly again when their schedules were not very endearing to the idea, or get separate ones. I decided at last to do separate ones, which I think will work out better as I was able to do some more tailored questions for each of them.

I spent the next two hours trying to figure out exactly how I was going to interview Brandon and Alan, both of whom were in panels and would be leaving nearly immediately after. There was a complex plan involving me trying to speed interview Alan then riding to the airport with Brandon, but the Pattern bent in my favor, and I managed to get the Brandon interview very satisfyingly done right before he left. Like, literally. We shook hands, then he got in the van and was gone. After that, I snagged Alan and finished his interview.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*