# [Interview #510: Recap of JordanCon II - Richard Fife, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=510#6)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Brandon then went on to talk about his upcoming novel,
*The Way of Kings*
, which is book one of a projected ten in the
*Stormlight Archive*
. Brandon explained that, as one would expect, any writer that is developing while reading Jordan would have a grand epic of some sort in the back of his head.
*The Way of Kings*
is his. He wrote a first draft of it a while ago. It was a behemoth of a book, and he had initially tried to get it published right after
*Elantris*
. His editor was not so sure that would be something he could do, especially as it was a super-ambitious project. So they shelved it and he moved on to Mistborn. But it was still there, waiting.

After
*The Gathering Storm*
was finished, two things happened. The first being that Brandon found he needed a break from The Wheel of Time to rejuvenate. The second was that Tom Doherty (the big boss of Tor) called him and said that they did not have a book from
*just*
Brandon Sanderson coming out this year and that he would like one. Brandon tried to protest, but Tom was persistent and said the six words one should probably never tell an author: "You can do whatever you want." So, Brandon rewrote
*The Way of Kings*
entirely, using his since-refined skills to tighten it up (some, it is still nearly a thousand pages), and even managed to get Tom to call in an old favor with Michael Whelan to do the cover art.

Something to be warned of, though. Book Two of the
*Stormlight Archive*
is going to be a long time coming. Brandon is going to finish The Wheel of Time first before he goes back to that. He then intends to do two more Stormlight books, then some other single project, then two more, then a single, et cetera and so forth. So be ready for at least a small wait for a sequel to that.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*