# [Interview #602: JordanCon Report - Ted Herman, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=602#5)

#### Question

[paraphrased] Were there any consequences from Rand asking questions of the Aelfinn that touched on the Shadow (about cleansing the taint and winning Tarmon Gai'don)?

#### Alan Romanczuk

Moiraine and Cadsuane thought there would be consequences, but that doesn't necessarily make it so.

#### Ted Herman

However, the glossary entry in
*Towers of Midnight*
for the Aelfinn states that there are consequences in such circumstances, so either that is wrong or there is a possible contradiction.

> Towers of Midnight
>   
> CHAPTER: GLOSSARY
>   
> **Aelfinn:**
> A race of beings, largely human in appearance but with snakelike characteristics, who will give true answers to three questions. Whatever the question, their answers are always correct, if frequently given in forms that are not clear, but questions concerning the Shadow can be extremely dangerous. Their true location is unknown, but they can be visited by passing through a
> *ter'angreal*
> , once a possession of Mayene but in recent years held in the Stone of Tear. They can also be reached by entering the Tower of Ghenjei. They speak the Old Tongue, mention treaties and agreements, and ask if those entering carry iron, instruments of music, or devices that can make fire. See also Eelfinn, Snakes and Foxes.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*