# [Interview #187, Entry #1]: SciFi Weekly Interview](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=187#1)

#### Michael McCarty and Mark McLaughlin

The big Wheel of Time keeps on turning for fantasist Robert Jordan.

Robert Jordan is the author of The Wheel of Time, the number-one international best-selling epic fantasy series, with more than 11 million copies in print. "Robert Jordan" is actually a pseudonym—he is saving his real name for the dust jackets of any nongenre literature he may produce. His actual name is James Oliver Rigney Jr., and he lives with his wife, Harriet, in Charleston, S.C.

Robert Jordan was born in 1948 in Charleston. He is a graduate of The Citadel, the military college of South Carolina, and has a degree in physics. He served two tours in Vietnam with the U.S. Army; among his decorations are the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Bronze Star with "V," and two Vietnamese Crosses of Gallantry.

He has been writing since 1977 and has no intention of giving up. Like the Wheel of Time, he's going to keep on rolling on. The Wheel of Time books are published in America by TOR Books, a label of Tom Doherty Associates, and in the United Kingdom by Orbit Books. They have been translated into over 25 languages, including Hebrew, Japanese and Swedish. He has also written a western novel and a series based on Robert E. Howard's character Conan.

The Wheel of Time series includes 10 novels, starting with
*The Eye of the World*
, released in 1990. His latest in the series is a prequel called
*New Spring*
.

