# [Interview #1130, Entry #9]: MiniCon 2015](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1130#9)

#### Ruro272

Is Roshar, or has Roshar always been the only large landmass on the planet?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Roshar is.... (Brandon then pauses and looks up, thinking very hard) Roshar has always been the largest landmass--as long as there has been land. (This statement was met with a LOT of OOOOHS, and Brandon had a definite grin on his face).

#### Footnote

Now this one is extremely interesting. If any of you guys have followed the discussions regarding the "Hints on the Roshar map" that Brandon's alluded to many times, the 17th Shard finally cracked the code that the landmass is a 2d cross section of a 3d shadow of a 4d Juliet transformation something or other blah blah, some crazy math thing. There is a whole thread about this topic somewhere on this forum, and the similarities are striking--plus Peter himself commented on that thread "About time you guys figured this out". So what does it mean that the shape comes from some complex mathematical methodology and not just random? Well, because somebody in that thread commented that they thought Roshar was created from leftover crem from highstorms over the course of thousands of years. Based on what we know about Roshar's shape, the fact that Brandon has commented on needing a system in which "earth" is deposited from the air, and the strong implication that there was a time when Roshar had no landmass at all, I think I'm definitely on board with the "Roshar = crem" theory.

