# [Interview #518: JordanCon: Interview with Brandon Sanderson by Richard Fife, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=518#7)

#### Richard Fife

You have a knack for writing strong female protagonists, and I think that a lot of people agree, from Vin in Mistborn to the princesses in
*Warbreaker*
. I daresay even Egwene in
*The Gathering Storm*
to the extent that you got to write her. Care to comment on that? Did you have to take any special considerations when writing them?

#### Brandon Sanderson

It was very hard for me at first. I did it poorly. It really bothered me because I have two sisters that I studied a lot, and I would ask them, "read this and tell me what you think." I'd look for their opinions; that was part of it. Then there's my mother. She graduated valedictorian of her college class in accounting in a time when she was the only woman in the entire program. So, I have had good role models; that is one thing.

But for another, I saw it as something I was weak at early on, before I got published, and it bothered me so much that it became something that I focused on and worked on really hard because I wanted it to become a strength. And the real change happened when I stopped treating characters like roles in a book and I started treating them like people. Each character sees themselves as the hero in the story in their own way, and so I started looking at that thought. The early women I'd put in a book, I'd put them in there only to be a romantic interest, and that was a bad way to do it. Instead, I make them their own character. Every character starts with their own desires and goals, and nobody just starts when the book starts. They are already in existence.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*