# [Interview #88: TPOD Signing Report - Drew Gillmore, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=88#1)

#### Drew Gillmore

I don't see anyone else doing this, and while it's still fresh in my mind...well, here's a report.

Of sorts.

[disclaimer] Further down I discuss some Q&A with the Creator that may inevitably lead to spoilers for
*The Path of Daggers*
.[/disclaimer]

I was drinking most of the time, so my recollection of details may be a little fuzzy. My Wheel of Time was definitely wobbling.

I got to the Bay Area in time for the book signing. In fact, I got to Bill and Hawk's place in time to make Hot Monkey Love with a few people before we went to the book signing. Not that Hot Monkey Love was made, just that there would have been time for it if we had so chosen.

Anyway, we got to Future Fantasy at 2:30. Chris Mullins, Michael Steeves, Batya and I all rode with Hawk, and we met up with Noell Milota at the bookstore. Bill wasn't feeling well and stayed at home. Wuss. (We missed you, Bill.) Future Fantasy had a policy in place in which if you had not bought the book at their store then you had to wait until everybody that
*had*
bought a book and wished to have it signed went through before you. Fortunately, there weren't many people willing to spend full price at some rinky-dink bookstore and the number of people who were in front of us was rather short.

Also there at the bookstore were Eric Fulton and Brian-Something-Or-Other, Dave H-Someone and a couple of lurkers. Others in attendance at that time were a lot of people whose names I don't remember as I stood in line with Chris discussing some plot points with a lurker. Actually, that's a lie. We spent most of the time in line trying to figure out how we could get Jordan to sign a Terry Pratchett book, or a Goodkind. I can't remember which. Maybe it was both.

We also discussed what questions to ask. Most were discarded as frivolous, or obvious RAFO answers. I hadn't thought about it too much, but fortunately Chris had, and he had a few that he let me borrow.

