# [Interview #974: AMOL Signing Report - J. Dauro, Entry #15](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=974#15)

#### Question

Are there any characters in Wheel of Time that you could see having their own series?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes, because Robert Jordan was going to write a series about them. We call them the Outriggers. You can Google what the Outriggers were going to be about. However Harriet can tell you the future of this series.

#### Harriet McDougal

They won't happen. Well, the reason is, he left only two sentences. And you can't build a trilogy from two sentences. It would be purely the work of someone else. And Robert Jordan had a horror of that happening. He didn't want it, so it won't happen. I mean, he would have loved to write them, but he didn't want another person, even Brandon, turned loose in his universe. So it's not going to happen.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, we have to be really respectful of what Robert Jordan wanted, plus there's just the "stop while you're ahead" sort of mentality, that comes to a really great ending that he himself wrote. So adding anything else would just be a bad idea. So yes, I could imagine stories about lots of people, and if he were here instead of me, I would be in line begging him to write them. But we can't have them, so you'll have to imagine them yourself.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*