# [Interview #974: AMOL Signing Report - J. Dauro, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=974#7)

#### Question

How much of the story in the last three books were things Brandon had to do, and how much was laid out by Robert Jordan?

#### Brandon Sanderson

It's really hard at this point for me to even sometimes remember, because I've been working on it for five years now. But, a lot of the big touchstone moments, he had mentioned in his notes. Now, when I mention the notes, we have the 32,000 pages, that is obviously too much to work with. And most of that was notes for previous novels. The assistants came up with 200 pages for me, that were focused on this book. That became the core of what I worked with to make these three novels, or this book, because it's still kind of one book in my head.

And of those 200 pages, there were about a hundred pages of actual written material that he'd done. And about a hundred pages of Q&As with his assistants regarding scenes that needed to be written, or where characters needed to end up and things like that.

I would say in a given scene, there's me and there's Robert Jordan in basically everything. But, if you want something a little more specific, in
*Gathering Storm*
, Egwene's plot line, he had a lot done for. For Rand's plot line, it was more me. For
*Towers of Midnight*
, Mat's plot line he'd done a lot on, Perrin's plot line was more me. And for the last book, the beginning and the end, he'd done a lot of work on, and the middle was more me.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*