# [Interview #996: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: UNFETTERED (with A MEMORY OF LIGHT deleted sequence) now out + Updates, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=996#3)

#### Brandon Sanderson

*Unfettered*
also has stories from lots of other wonderful writers in it. I'm honored to have a story in there, to be alongside the names that appear in this anthology. It's great to see so many people pulling together to support someone in the community, and I wish Shawn the best.

The anthology is available now in ebook form, and as a hardcover direct from Shawn's
[Grim Oak Press](http://grimoakpress.com/2012/08/unfettered-edited-by-shawn-speakman/)
website. He'll be shipping books out over the next three weeks (he has a very small operation and it will take him time to get through so many orders). Also note that the long-sold-out special edition signed by every single author will take even more time to deliver. The signing pages are currently being shipped around the country from author to author for all of us to sign, and that will take a while. Once all of those are back with Shawn, the pages will be bound into the books, which will then be delivered.

Here is the complete list of stories appearing in
*Unfettered*
:

Imaginary Friends by Terry Brooks (a precursor to the Word/Void trilogy)
  
How Old Holly Came To Be by Patrick Rothfuss (a Four Corners tale)
  
River of Souls by Robert Jordan & Brandon Sanderson (a Wheel of Time tale)
  
The Old Scale Game by Tad Williams
  
Game of Chance by Carrie Vaughn
  
Martyr of the Roses by Jacqueline Carey (a precursor to the Kushiel series)
  
Dogs by Daniel Abraham
  
Mudboy by Peter V. Brett (a Demon Cycle tale)
  
The Sound of Broken Absolutes by Peter Orullian (a Vault of Heaven tale)
  
The Coach With Big Teeth by R.A. Salvatore
  
Keeper of Memory by Todd Lockwood (a Summer Dragon tale)
  
Heaven in a Wild Flower by Blake Charlton
  
The Chapel Perilous by Kevin Hearne (an Iron Druid tale)
  
Select Mode by Mark Lawrence (a Broken Empire tale)
  
All the Girls Love Michael Stein by David Anthony Durham
  
Strange Rain by Jennifer Bosworth (a Struck epilogue tale)
  
Nocturne by Robert V. S. Redick
  
Unbowed by Eldon Thompson (a Legend of Asahiel tale)
  
In Favour With Their Stars by Naomi Novik (a Temeraire tale)
  
The Jester by Michael J. Sullivan (a Riyria Chronicles tale)
  
The Duel by Lev Grossman (a Magicians tale)
  
Walker and the Shade of Allanon by Terry Brooks (a Shannara tale)
  
The Unfettered Knight by Shawn Speakman (an Annwn Cycle tale)

If you missed it,
[here's the video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UtHQbOMiD-k)
where I explain my part in this anthology.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*