# [Interview #233, Entry #1]: KOD Signing Report - Fomu](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=233#1)

#### Fomu

Well friends, I've been [lurking] here for literally years, but never felt a reason to post until now. I assume that many of you would probably be wondering how the signing in Lexington, KY, at the honorable Joseph-Beth Booksellers went this evening.

I arrived a few minutes to 7pm, 30 minutes early...or so I thought. Turns out, it really started at 7pm and I found such a lovely place to stand in the very back of the crowd. No fear, for the speakers were loud enough to hear Jordan in the parking lot, much less the 50 feet from me he was.

Judging by the lettering on the signing slips, each had a letter starting with 'A' and the latest letter I saw being 'J', with 25 of each slip, leads me to believe there were maybe 200+ people in attendance. Quite a few more than at my last signing, nine years ago, at the same location.

#### Robert Jordan

At around 10 after the hour, I noticed a familiar bearded face exiting the coffee shop and being led to the podium. I believe that Harriet was with him, but I quickly lost her during the cheering as the Creator, may his light shine on us all, took the stage.

His opening remarks were remarkably similar to those given during the West Chester signing. Did I say remarkably? I commented to the gentleman next to me that I think he had memorized it. Well, no worries, it was
*definitely*
worth hearing in person. No tape recorder do I own, thus no .wav file for me to let you hear.

