# [Interview #233: KOD Signing Report - Fomu, Entry #11](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=233#11)

#### Fomu

One question that I found interesting, although it slipped my mind last evening, if only for RJ's slick response. The question was about the differences between the Warder bond and the Asha'man bonding of an Aes Sedai.

#### Robert Jordan

From a mechanical standpoint, RJ explained that the bonds themselves are very different weaves, but that is more because of the differences in the situations. It is very unlikely that a Warder would ever try and kill their Aes Sedai, but that is not the case for an Asha'man and his bonded Aes Sedai. The Asha'man bond requires obedience of the Aes Sedai because the Asha'man would be in danger of her if she did not obey his every command. The Warder bond is different in that the Aes Sedai can bend her Warder to her will, but only with some effort on her part.

RJ quoted from his own book how Logain stated that the Asha'man bond could be easily modified so that the obedience requirement was removed, and here is the important part and I will quote from memory, "but that has not happened, thus far."

#### Fomu

Those last two words were said with his head turning away from the microphone and with a pause before they were said. I'm not trying to be a conspiracy theorist here, but maybe this is RJ's way of saying we'll see an example of a more equitable bonding between Asha'man and Aes Sedai in the future.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*