# [Interview #454: BYU Stormleader Dinner - Matt Hatch, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=454#4)

#### Matt Hatch

The Choedan Kal, does it amplify your power? Is it a limited, for example, if I have a certain amount of power does it give me 10x what I have, or is it a certain amount of power I can access?

#### Brandon Sanderson

One of the things I’ve been doing when I answer questions is that I’ve been saying that this is my understanding and putting an asterisk at the bottom that is a—I am speaking from my understanding and not from specific knowledge from the notes, meaning yes I am probably right but these are the questions I could be wrong on...this one my understanding is that it is a reservoir of power. It is not necessarily a magnification. A very weak person with a very powerful
*sa’angreal*
is very powerful. I’m pretty sure on that one, but I will add the asterisk just in case. If you send me an email, I can go back and look to make sure. But I’m reasonably sure on that one, the reasons being things that are talked about in the notes mixed with the way
*angreal*
and
*sa’angreal*
worked previously in the books mixed with two specific things that he talked about in the notes when people using
*angreal*
and
*sa’angreal*
after they become very weak or after they are weak.

#### Footnote

Brandon is presumably talking about Siuan and Moiraine, both of whom are weaker and supplemented by a
*sa'angreal*
and a strong
*angreal*
respectively. However, Brandon's explanation wouldn't explain why Elayne thought it prudent to give the
*angreal*
to the strongest women when the Bowl of the Winds was used. If it were simply a reservoir of power, then it wouldn't matter who used the
*angreal*
in a circle.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*