# [Interview #454, Entry #6]: BYU Stormleader Dinner - Matt Hatch](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=454#6)

#### Matt Hatch

I don’t think Jordan ever, maybe somebody asked, in his notes does he ever say what the treaties were between the 'Finns and the people with whom they made them? Are those treaties actually written down somewhere?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Um—I think that you may see some of this in the encyclopedia. How is that for a Robert Jordan answer for you? The encyclopedia is coming. [Stuff about the Big White Book]. It is actually going to be an encyclopedia...Harriet, Maria and Alan are working on that.
*A Memory of Light*
comes first so they have to keep dividing their time. My guess would be 2012, but if we’re really on the ball, I would think releasing it the same year of the last volume would be a smart thing to do...Peter will you take a note to let Maria know that I told them that that might happen so she is not blind sided by it. She and Harriet will have to decide if that goes in if anything regarding that goes in. The original treaty between the Aelfinn and Eelfinn and mankind. Just remind me to talk to Harriet to talk to Maria about it.

#### MATT HATCH

Are the treaties different?

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Different from what?

#### MATT HATCH

There are two treaties...(hard to hear what I ask next, but I’m clarifying Snakes and Foxes).

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

They are similar, how about that. They are similar enough that they could be considered functionally identical but there are little differences.

