# [Interview #580: Paris Signing Report - Jonathan B, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=580#6)

#### Question

Someone else asked if Rand's internal state of affairs was affecting the world around him.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Brandon said there are two things going on—
*ta'veren*
and the Fisher King prophecy which says the Dragon is tied directly to the land. He says it seems to Rand that more bad stuff was happening in
*The Gathering Storm*
but that this could be either just Rand's perception or what is really going on. We should remember that
*ta'veren*
is supposed to be 50/50—an extra equal amount of good and bad going on. He would not tell us at this point whether there was really more bad stuff happening in
*The Gathering Storm*
or whether its Rand's perception as there was purposefully very few viewpoints from Rand himself in
*Towers of Midnight*
. Like the third book
*The Dragon Reborn*
,
*Towers of Midnight*
is meant to step away from Rand and view him from the viewpoints of others.

Someone also asked if Rand's
*ta'veren*
nature would affect people on the other side of an open gateway. Brandon said that the Pattern considers that Rand is where he is and not on the other side of the gateway, so he would not affect a place just by having a gateway open there and not actually being there.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*