# [Interview #484: Science and Society Podcast, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=484#2)

#### David Lenberg

Hello, everyone and welcome to Science and Society—our world, our well-being, our future. I'm Dr. David Lenberg. The Science and Society mission is to promote and support the public understanding and awareness of science, and to promote and support math and science education. Please visit us online at scienceandsociety—all one word—dot net.

Today's special guest is Brandon Sanderson, author of
*The Gathering Storm*
.
*The Gathering Storm*
, recently published by Tor Books, is book twelve of the Wheel of Time series, and the first of three novels to make up the conclusion. The final two novels will be released within the next three years.

Brandon Sanderson is the
*New York Times*
best-selling author of several critically acclaimed fantasy novels including the Mistborn trilogy and the recent
*Warbreaker*
. In five years, Brandon went from unknown college student to best-selling author to the writer chosen to complete Robert Jordan's #1
*New York Times*
best-selling series. His first published book was
*Elantris*
, a terrific novel which won the
*Romantic Times*
award for best epic fantasy of 2005.
*Elantris*
was chosen by BarnesandNoble.com editors as the best fantasy or science fiction book of the year. Please welcome Brandon Sanderson.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Thank you.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*