# [Interview #484: Science and Society Podcast, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=484#8)

#### David Lenberg

Uh-huh, uh-huh. . . it's a big idea. Brandon, thank you. You began writing when you were in college or high school?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I began writing when I was in high school. I started my first book when I was fifteen. I never finished it. I began writing in college very seriously. Ended up writing thirteen novels before I sold one. I sold number six, which was
*Elantris*
that you had mentioned. And that was after eight or nine years of work writing, working the graveyard shift at a local hotel so that I could write full time while I was going to school full time and working full time. And that was a wonderful experience. You know, the job, when they interviewed me, they said, 'all we really want is someone to stay awake; can you stay awake?' And I said, yeah, as long as I can write books. And so from about midnight to 5 AM every night, I was there at the front desk writing books, just in case the building started on fire or some really late last minute check-in needed to come in, or something like that. And I wrote. . . I wrote probably ten books at that desk.

#### David Lenberg

Wow. Wow, and then you'd sleep for two hours and then go to class.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, I'd actually get off and go right to class around 8 AM and then get home and sleep, and then get up and go back to work. It was not very good for my social life. But I did get to meet lots of interesting people. Lots of fodder for books, working on a graveyard shift like that.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*