# [Interview #484: Science and Society Podcast, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=484#9)

#### David Lenberg

Uh-huh, uh-huh. Brandon, how do you find the wherewithal, the impetus within yourself, to keep writing when you're not selling?

#### Brandon Sanderson

You know, that's a great question. Part of it was that I found that I really and truly enjoyed the creative process. People don't always play music because they want to make a living at it. You do it because it's inside of you. And the writing, it was inside of me. These stories had to come out. And the more I did it, the more it consumed me, the more it became just part of who I was. And so, I decided in the midst of it, yeah, I really wanted to be published. Yeah, I would love to do this for a living. And I still feel very, very blessed that I get to. At the same time, I felt that even if I would never get published, I would continue to do this for the rest of my life because it was simply something that was part of me. And I find that happens with a lot of writers.

#### David Lenberg

This makes me think of Michelangelo. They said, you know, how do you do what you do? And he says, well I look at the block of stone, marble, and I can see what's in there.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah. That's really how it is. I mean, these things are bounced around in my head, and really if I didn't get them on the page, I might just go mad from them. I mean, I've gotta get them out.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*