# [Interview #190: Robert Jordan on Halloween, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=190#2)

#### Jason Denzel

Regarding the holiday last year, RJ said:

#### Robert Jordan

We don't usually get into costume for Halloween, but this year we were asked to the Buildings and Bones Ball, a charity affair in support of the School for the Building Arts. That is a very neat organization here in Charleston that teaches young people old-style building methods and things like stone carving, wood carving, making decorative ironwork and gates, and working with slate roofs, all crafts that are fading away in much of the country as the older men who followed them retire without any younger men taking the crafts up. With as many old buildings as Charleston has—the oldest in the city dates to 1680—we really can't afford to be without those crafts. Other countries know this. SCOBA has formed a relationship with a similar school in Paris which has over 6000 students. SCOBA has only a couple of hundred students at present, though it is growing.

#### JASON DENZEL

He was also quick to add:

#### ROBERT JORDAN

Just be sure to let people know I've lost a LOT of weight since then. :) I've even lost weight since you saw me in San Diego.

#### JASON DENZEL

Indeed. Looking good, RJ!

More information about the School for the Building Arts can be found via the link below. Please take a moment and learn a little about their organization.

Overall, Robert Jordan summed these pictures up best:

#### ROBERT JORDAN

Actually, I myself think Mr. Depp should be afraid. Very afraid.

