# [Interview #251: Bridlington Today Interview, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=251#1)

#### Question

Can you give me an idea of your daily/nightly routine when you're writing? Do you have a pages-per-day target? Do you let the writing flow and then go back and tinker or do you spend lots of time in meticulous plotting and planning?

#### Robert Jordan

After breakfast, I go to my desk, deal with the phone calls and e-mails that really have to be dealt with, then start writing.
Usually, this begins with going over the last scene completed to see whether I can tighten it up, make it better in some way.
By the end of that scene I am into the flow again.
I'm supposed to stop at midday for lunch, but unless someone reminds me, I usually forget until 4 or 4:30 in the afternoon, by which time it's a little late.
At 6pm I knock off, do my backup, and go into the house to help Harriet get dinner on the table.
I don't have a pages-per-day target; I simply write and see how it falls out.
Sometimes this involves lots of time put into plotting and planning while other times it is just a matter of letting things rip.
Either way, however, whatever I write will be rewritten a number of times, perhaps a great number.
I always think I could make it better given a little more time.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*