# [Interview #251, Entry #7]: Bridlington Today Interview](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=251#7)

#### Question

How do you keep track of all the story lines and characters? Do you have a fantastically-detailed and organised character/plot filing system, post-it notes all over your office or a 400GB brain? Has your mental capacity been used up by the Wheel of Time to the extent that everyday life becomes somewhat of a muddle? It would for me!

#### Robert Jordan

My wife would say that everyday life is somewhat of a muddle for any writer, and since she has been an editor for most of her life, she might have some insight.
For the rest, I have copious files on characters, nations, history, just about anything that I might need to know. Some of these are quite large.
The file listing every Aes Sedai living or dead along with every novice and Accepted along with physical descriptions of each woman, the dates of her birth and her coming to the White Tower, how long she spent as novice and Accepted, character traits and a lot more runs to about 2.5 megabytes.
The general file on White Tower, containing such things as the layout of the Tower and the Tower grounds, Tower law, Tower history, Aes Sedai customs, Ajah customs etc., also runs about the same size.
I'm not saying that the files are exhaustive—I frequently need to invent something new—but they list not only all of the information given in the books but also information that hasn't been used as yet.
The story line itself has always been exclusively in my head until it was time to begin a new book.
Then I sit down and figure out how much of the story from my head I can get into the book.
Until recently, I had been proven wrong on that every time.
I could never get into a book as much of the story as I thought I could.
So what began as an imagined six-book series has expanded.
Now I've reached the last book, and the rest of the story is sketched out on paper for the first time.
Well, paper digitally speaking.

