# [Interview #893, Entry #2]: AMOL Midnight Release Q&A](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=893#2)

#### Jason Denzel

(into mic) Hello? You guys look like a Wheel of Time crowd! Hello, and welcome. My name is Jason Denzel; I'm the webmaster of Dragonmount.com. [applause, cheers] I'm going to do a—I mean, everyone up here probably needs no introduction, but we're going to introduce ourselves anyway, and then we have some treats for you. So, going down the line here, next to me is the wonderful, the incredible, the amazing Harriet McDougal. [applause, cheers, standing ovation]

#### Harriet McDougal

Hello! Y'all are going to make me cry! I put my shoes on one foot at a time, just the way you do. [laughter] Thank you very much for that incredibly warm welcome.

#### Jason Denzel

Next here is Maria Simons, Harriet's executive assistant, and probably the person who knows the Wheel of Time better than any of you. [laughter, applause, cheers]

#### Maria Simons

Hello. Great to see you all.

#### Jason Denzel

I'm going to skip over the next guest; we'll come back to him. [laughter] Matt Hatch, the webmaster of Theoryland.com [applause, cheers] And Peter Ahlstrom, Brandon's assistant, and also someone who knows these books inside and out. [applause, cheers] Last, but not least, of course, we have Brandon Sanderson. [applause, cheers, standing ovation]

So we're going to begin here with something very special for you. Harriet is going to read from
*A Memory of Light*
, something that has not yet been put out in any of the various previews online or anything, so assuming you haven't read the book yet, this should be something new and special for you. Here's Harriet.

#### Harriet McDougal

This is why I've had my nose in this book, is checking out what I plan to read.

#### Audience

Read the ending! [laughter]

#### Harriet McDougal

You wish! This is from chapter nine. [snip Rand POV] [applause]

