# [Interview #893, Entry #28]: AMOL Midnight Release Q&A](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=893#28)

#### Chris Wells

My name is Chris Wells; I'm from Salt Lake City. I'm a bookseller, and avid Wheel of Time fan. I'm also the
[TAVEREN license plate guy](http://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=893#11)
. My question was for Brandon. I've started writing now, and I love to listen to music when I write. I was just curious about, what is your ritual for when you write? Do you like music? Do you like complete silence?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I usually have to listen to music. For some reason, I don't like the silence; I like something going. And so I usually...I generate Pandora stations based around different moods, and I'll turn them on for different sequences and different scenes. At some points, I will just pick out specific bands that I have music by, and I'll play that, depending on what I need to be writing. And so, yeah...there's a lot of different things, but it's often just Pandora-ish sort of backgroundy generic sort of things.

I do like...during my early years writing, I listened to a lot of what we call OverClocked remixes, because they were great. [cheers, applause] Game music—video game music—that were remixed into different orchestrations and stuff. And I was too poor to buy a lot of music, so I went and grabbed those, and so I still have many favorites among those.

#### Chris Wells

Okay, and then...just...because you two have created something so wonderful that has changed my life—it's my very favorite series—I made something for each of you. (holds up two necklaces) These are Amyrlin chains. They follow the seven colors of the Ajahs in the pattern of the Amyrlin's stole, and they are made from anodized aluminum. I made one of these for Harriet, and one for Brandon. [applause]

#### Brandon Sanderson

Thank you.

#### Harriet McDougal

Thank you!

