# [Interview #893: AMOL Midnight Release Q&A, Entry #33](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=893#33)

#### Question

After a lot of those, my question is kind of simple. First of all, Harriet, thank you. These characters have been my friends for twenty years, and so just thank you to you for helping...everything that you've done in that process. But my question is—reading this so many times, I've always associated myself with a few characters: Perrin and then Lan Mandragoran—and I'm just wondering—and this could be open to anybody, but mainly you three—who do you really relate yourselves with, of the main characters there?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I have frequently said that Perrin was my favorite all along. I was a Perrin fan, even when Perrin was in...some...some...a darker place in his life. [laughter] You know, if you're a Cubs fan, you don't abandon the Cubs just because they haven't, you know, won a World Series in a hundred years. [laughter] And if you're a Perrin fan, you don't abandon Perrin just because he's struggling in his life with some important questions. No, it's been Perrin. Even though Mat stole the show in later books, I was still a Perrin guy.

#### Harriet McDougal

And I guess I'm....I love 'em all. [laughter]

#### Audience

Perrin! [laughter]

#### Maria Simons

I wish I was ....well, like some of Verin. I didn't really want to be evil, or anything. [laughter] But I like Verin. She was sneaky, sneaky...but she got things done, and she turned out alright.

#### Harriet McDougal

And she had that owl. [laughter]

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*