# [Interview #893: AMOL Midnight Release Q&A, Entry #4](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=893#4)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Okay, and now a quick announcement about how we're going to do the questions.

#### Kristy Lussier

(trying to reach mic) It doesn't stretch far. (destroys microphone, gets another) Sorry. [laughter] Okay, so anybody that would like to ask a question, what we're going to ask you to do is...there are aisles here; we'll have you line up at the end of the aisle, and then a Memory Keeper will direct you to the microphone, and if you could state your name, where you're from, and then ask your question to the panel, that would be great. Oh and Brandon says no spoilers.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Specifically about
*A Memory of Light*
. I know some of you have copies that you found in
*unauthorized locations*
[laughter], and so we want to stay away from any spoilers about this book. Spoilers about the other books are probably okay, though if you can circumlocute—if you can talk around without giving too many specifics—that might be better, but I think if you're here you probably have read most of the series. [laughter] And if you haven't, I'm sorry, but there's going to probably be some spoilers.

So yeah, let's go ahead and do questions and answers.

#### Memory Keeper

Line up! If anybody wants to ask a question, line up here.

#### Matt Hatch

Don't be shy!

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*