# [Interview #893: AMOL Midnight Release Q&A, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=893#9)

#### Brian Hill

Hello. I'm Brian Hill, from near Seattle, Washington, and I first want to thank Harriet for your courage and generosity in bringing this to us after the loss that you had. Thank you. [applause]

#### Harriet McDougal

Thank you. [applause] Thank you for wanting it. [laughter]

#### Brian Hill

Two things. If circumstances had been different, would Robert Jordan and Brandon Sanderson get along, and would they be friends? [laughter] And second, with this...now that it's all written, as he looks down, is he proud? What would his thoughts be tonight?

#### Harriet McDougal

Oh, I think he'd be proud. I think he'd be proud, and I do think he and Brandon would have gotten along. [laughter]

#### Maria Simons

One thing that was really strange...the first time Brandon came to Harriet and Jim's house, we were...when Jim was still alive, on Fridays we would order out from a restaurant and sit down and talk and everything, and so Brandon came. We ordered from one of the same restaurants. He ordered what Jim ordered, without any hints or anything. He sat in Jim's seat. It was kinda like, "Wow, this is kinda cool!" [laughter] It felt like it was meant to be.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Harriet tells a story—at least on the
*Gathering Storm*
tour, someone asked a question like that—and she said...(to Harriet) back then you said...she thought he was probably up there and looking down and saying, "Who is that kid?" And then kind of nodding and saying, "Yeah, it turned out alright." [laughter]

#### Harriet McDougal

I think he's definitely saying that now.

