# [Interview #230: KOD Signing Report - Steve, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=230#1)

#### Steve

Well! We saw Robert Jordan Friday night—and a great night it was too! The official start time was 7pm and he was brought up to the podium just about 5minutes after that. We enjoyed 20-25 minutes of questions and banter, then he signed books for the rest of the evening. I don't think that RJ revealed any new plot twists or details about the Wheel of Time storyline but he did make a memorable evening for myself, my two sons (Alex and Erik—both avid fans), and over 100 other people...

My sons and I knew that this would probably be a once in a lifetime chance for us to meet the great man. We had found out by phone that his 7-8pm appearance would be preceded by a 6pm "handing out of numbers" to build the queue for later questions. With that and our three schedules in mind we decided the best we could do was arrive at 4pm to get in "the line to form the line"... AS IT TURNED OUT, that made us #1,2,3 in line! WE were all really excited at that and found out that not only did that get us in the top ten to have our books signed but it got us in the first row of assigned seats just in front of the podium. Ahhh, heaven! I found out that he didn't mind video cameras so setup my tripod off to the side and got some great footage of him answering questions, etc. We have a few good pics that I have included. The fellow dressed as an Asha'man had both the dragon and the sword pins, BTW.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*