# [Interview #480: TGS Signing Report - Samadai, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=480#2)

#### Samadai

At 7:00 the Storm Leaders came out and Brandon followed about five minutes later. I know, that like me, many of you have followed his signings and what he talks about and probably have it memorized, but I'm telling this story. :)

#### Brandon Sanderson

He talked about his love of reading, and mentioned going into his local bookstore and seeing
*The Eye of the World*
for the first time. He had to come back and get it a week later because he was broke. He mentioned how RJ and the WoT is the reason he chose to become a writer.

He then talked about perusing the internet one day and finding out about RJ dying, how it was like finding out all his childhood friends had died at one time. He talked about the eulogy he wrote for RJ. How he came down stairs one morning (noon) and got the message from Harriet asking to talk to him. He finally decided to write the books because he could not think of another person who was a huge fan who had studied the story as much as he has and was also a published writer. He talked about flying to meet Harriet at her house, she invited him in with an offer of food, and asked him what she could get him. He said "the ending of the book and who killed Asmodean". I too have read this many times before but the impact of hearing it was phenomenal.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*