# [Interview #452: Ending The Wheel of Time: The GeekDad Interview with Brandon Sanderson, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=452#7)

#### GeekDad

And you're also working on your own books right now as well. Has there been any trouble there, or have you been able to firewall that?

#### Brandon Sanderson

I've been able to firewall it. What I've done is that I tend to separate things timewise. I took the summer off [from The Wheel of Time] to work on some of my own projects that I needed to get back to, and so I gave myself four months or so of time to do that. I got done what I needed to do, and could then just section that off and get back to The Wheel of Time. The way I stay sane as a writer is I work on different projects. I'll dedicate myself to something very big for a long time, and then I'll cut it off and do something else for a while. Maybe it's like taking a drink of water between trying different bites of food. I did that this summer. I went and did other things for a while to refresh myself. That's worked very well in the past in keeping me from getting burned out. That's where my kid's series came from:
*Alcatraz versus the Evil Librarians*
came from me taking a break between Mistborn 2 and 3, and not wanting to write the climax to the Mistborn books, feeling burned out on the series, and doing something else for a month.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*