# [Interview #748: Interview with Isaac Stewart, the man behind the maps of Mistborn and The Way of Kings, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=748#1)

#### Trevor Green

Permit me a nerd-like "squeee!" before I start this one. I'm not ashamed. Okay, now that's taken care of, let me tell you what the big deal is all about today. As you can see in the post title, this month's interview is with Isaac Stewart, hence my excitement. He's just the guy who created the maps, symbols, and chapter headings for Brandon Sanderson's Mistborn series and
*The Way of Kings*
, in addition to a ton of other cool stuff. But I'll let the interview detail the rest of that. There's some seriously good info in here boys and girls, so make sure to pay attention.

...I met Isaac at a book signing with Brandon Sanderson, oh, maybe a year ago. He was laying down his John Hancock on some seriously huge bookmarks (of which we scored a couple). My wife and I took the opportunity to talk with him a bit, asking some stupid questions since we had never met him before. He was pretty down with talking to everyone, which is always great. We've kept in touch since then and chatted at some more signings and a con. He's a dang nice guy and I'm sure he'd love to have you all shoot him a tweet saying "hi". Alright, enough from me, on to the questions!

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*