# [Interview #748: Interview with Isaac Stewart, the man behind the maps of Mistborn and The Way of Kings, Entry #14](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=748#14)

#### Trevor Green

What's been the most difficult thing about being associated with such largely successful novels?

#### Isaac Stewart

Finding the time to fit everything in. These days I have to be very selective about what I take on since I've committed a lot of my future time to working with existing clients. I rarely take on new clients because there isn't enough time in the day to work a full-time job, be a husband, be a dad, serve in my church, do existing freelance projects, and work on my own projects. Sometimes I find time to breathe and blink.

#### Trevor Green

(At this point I'd like to once again thank Isaac for taking the time to do this interview. Makes a fellow feel loved you know?)

What's the best about it?

#### Isaac Stewart

The best thing about seeing your friends succeed in writing books is also recognizing the pattern of success and realizing that becoming a full-time writer can actually happen. When I find myself in the occasional moment of frustration, I count how many people I know who have "made it." If I don't give up, I tell myself, I'll make it too. This makes the chains of all-nighters more bearable.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*