# [Interview #675: Alloy of Law Signing Report - Zas, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=675#1)

#### zas (Terez)

In Nynaeve's Accepted test, Lan tells her that Malkier is a joint monarchy, which he says is a Borderland custom. Later we find out that Kandor is not a joint monarchy, but Saldaea is. Is Nynaeve queen of Malkier now that Lan has finally declared himself king?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Lan does not consider himself King, because he has no kingdom. The answer to that is, depends on your perspective. He has agreed to lead the Malkier—he has not agreed to be king. It's different. See how Aes Sedai I answered that? (laughter)

#### Audience Member

Try telling Nynaeve she's not a queen.
(laughter)

#### Brandon Sanderson

I won't forget Nynaeve yet, but I don't think she's fully realized what she's getting into yet, with him.

#### FOOTNOTE—TEREZ

I guess Lan says it best (last scene in
*Towers of Midnight*
): "I am al'Lan Mandragoran," Lan bellowed. "Lord of the Seven Towers, Defender of the Wall of First Fires, Bearer of the Sword of the Thousand Lakes! I was once named
*Aan'allein*
, but I reject that title, for I am alone no more. Fear me, Shadow! Fear me and know. I have returned for what is mine. I may be a king without a land. But I am
*still a king*
!"

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*