# [Interview #675: Alloy of Law Signing Report - Zas, Entry #25](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=675#25)

#### Brandon Sanderson

The video game is coming along very nicely. In fact, earlier just this week I built the whole plot sequence for that. It’s going to have some really good twists and turns and theoretically, if it works well, I will be writing all the dialogue and all the story.

#### Member of Audience

Which is more on your plate.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Which is more on my plate. But that can be fun, because the main character is a really sarcastic kind of a little bit of a jerk. And so I can actually write his dialogue on napkins while I’m sitting, waiting and be like “Alright, here’s a good line,” and things like that. That’s because most of it is gameplay. I have to just come up with lots of good wisecracks and then of course, I have to write the cutscenes. But those really aren’t that much in a game like this. It’s maybe a week’s worth of work to get all of that written.

#### Zas

How long before is the game going to be? I remember you saying it was going to be before
*Final Empire*
, but I was wondering how long before?

#### Brandon Sanderson

We are shooting for second century after The Lord Ruler's Ascension.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*