# [Interview #675, Entry #5]: Alloy of Law Signing Report - Zas](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=675#5)

#### Question

Quick question I get asked all the time working here at Barnes and Noble. When are you expected general release dates for Stormlight Archive #2 and
*A Memory of Light?*

#### Brandon Sanderson

Alright, so this is what I'm doing right now. I am turning in
*A Memory of Light*
December 31st. If I don't, Harriet will probably fly to my house and shake me. And so I will start writing Stormlight 2 right then. It's going to be a tough year because I want to get that done as soon as it is reasonable but I also have to edit the wheel of time book. and I will balance those two projects. Wheel of Time—I will tell you, most likely is October, November. We would like it to be sooner, but we have to wait on Harriet's edits, and beyond that, it's the last book, and she requested extra time to make sure we get everything in it.

That is my guess right now. Stormlight 2, if I'm on the ball, is March or April of the following year [2013]. That is what I'm really shooting for. The only other release that I have potentially is Tor has been hanging on to my children's books that they haven't yet been sure when they want to release. They actually have a book that is called
*Scribbler*
, which has been renamed the
*Rithmatist*
, and people see me talk about it. I actually wrote that one back in 2007 I think? Yeah, 2007. They've been hanging on to that one. I keep being noncomittal on that because it needs heavy rewrites.

So it needs a heavy rewrite. It would take like 2-3 months, and I've not had 2-3 months to dedicate to it. The other book they have of mine is
*Steelheart*
, which I've read from at things at signings and whatnot, it's a book I wrote a while ago during one of my breaks. They may release one of those next year, I'm not sure. Probably not
*The Rithmatist*
, because I don't have 2-3 months to spare. We may see
*Steelheart*
next Summer or next Fall. The thing is, they are in the process of acquiring the
*Alcatraz*
books from Scholastic, to repackage them, and they said they probably going to get that deal for sure, so they have them. So they probably want to do an original, like
*Steelheart*
, or
*Rithmatist*
, before they release the
*Alcatraz*
books, so they say "Hey, Tor has Brandon's children's books, now here is a new children's book, and by the way, here are repackaged books." Kind of in tandem in the publicity place. If they were going to do this,
*Steelheart*
in September, alongside
*Alcatraz*
1 repackaged in September, and then 2, 3, 4 repackaged in the next months, and then
*Alcatraz*
5.

So that is what's going on right there. A lot of it depends on how long it takes to write Stormlight 2.

#### MEMBER OF THE AUDIENCE

It's okay, we're Wheel of Time fans. We're used to waiting. (laughter)

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

I want to be more punctual than some authors have been recently in fantasy. (laughter) The thing about it is, we sometimes give Robert Jordan some grief about this but he was really good. There was a book a year for many years and then he went to a book every two years, and it wasn’t until late in his career when he was sick that he got a lot slower. He is actually a good model to follow. I’d like to have a book every year, going forward for as long as I can. I’d really like to do 2 Stormlight Archives every three years, if possible. I’m not sure if that’s viable or not.

#### JOSH

We would like that too. (laughter)

#### Footnote

Brandon is now shooting for late 2013, early 2014 for the Words of Radiance release date

