# [Interview #675, Entry #6]: Alloy of Law Signing Report - Zas](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=675#6)

#### Question

Do you ever feel stifled? Now that you’ve got a couple of different lines going in different worlds that have your next 40 years planned out?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes and no. I do start to feel a little stifled, and so you’ll see me do random side projects. It’s my steam valve to blow that pressure off, and then I get back to what I’m working on. That basically why you have
*Alloy of Law*
, because as much as I would’ve liked to have jumped right into the next Wheel of Time Book, I couldn’t. After writing
*Towers of Midnight*
, I was feeling too creatively stifled, and so I had to go take a break, and let myself for three months do whatever I wanted. And
*Alloy of Law*
came out of that.

So that is how I do it. That’s where
*Rithmatist*
came from, that’s where
*Steelheart*
came from, that’s kind of where
*Alcatraz*
came from, these non-mainland books, that’s where they are going to come from. You can anticipate me doing that more often in the future. It is a different life for me now that when I was unpublished, and could just write whatever I wanted, and things like that, but at the same time, I have long loved the big epic series, and I’ve always wanted to do one. That’s why I built what I built. I didn’t do it because “Oh, this is what sells, I have to do this.” I did this because I wanted to have this big grand epic. That’s why I built the Cosmere books as I did.

So I don’t feel stifled in that at all, even though I’ll finish one book than be like “Man, I can’t go into the next one of these” and go and do something different, because it’s my grand plan. You know, it’s the thing I’ve wanted to do. So I hope that people will stick with me for all these books, because I’ll do a lot of them. But they will fit together in some really cool ways once they are all done. I think you’ll be very very impressed, but that’s a while off.

