# [Interview #512: JordanCon 2009: The Report of DOOM - Leigh Butler, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=512#1)

#### Leigh Butler

Hi! Remember me?

'Tis I, Leigh Butler, back from the wilds of Atlanta and nearly halfway recuperated from my very first fandom convention, JordanCon 2009.

Didn't know this was my first one, huh? Well, it was, and I say, nothing could be more appropriate. And I'm-a gonna tell you alllll about it.

...I'm really not kidding, either. Please be aware that this post is rather—lengthy. All right, shut up. What can I say, brevity and I are not friends. We used to be tight back in college, but these days girl won't even return my phone calls.

Me and verbosity, though—we are like
*this*
.

Caveats and general disclaimers: all people and events and quotes and whatnot appearing in this report have been filtered through my highly weird, overloaded, non-note-taking-at-the-time and occasionally inebriated brain, so I apologize in advance for any errors, omissions, paraphrasions, or abrasions committed herein; I tried to keep it all as straight as possible, I swear. Concurrently, any and all errors made can be presumed to be mine and not whoever I thought was saying whatever it was that they possibly didn't say. There, that should clear things up.

Also, this report is by necessity rather lopsided, as I was running around like a maniac for most of this (though not nearly as much as the folks actually in charge of this thing), and ergo missed a lot of stuff because I was doing other stuff, or resting from the other stuff, or getting ready for more other stuff. So I can only tell you about what I was personally there for, and am probably forgetting some stuff anyway. Take it for what it's worth.

The contents of this post are USDA-approved, though the FCC is not so sanguine, and there were no animals harmed in the making of this report, even though Jason Denzel would have totally kicked that puppy if I hadn't stopped him.

What? Okay, fine, that was a lie. (It was a kitten!) Everything below the cut, however, is as for true for reals fo sho as I can make it. Enjoy, or be appalled, as you like. Don't say I didn't warn you.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*