# [Interview #512: JordanCon 2009: The Report of DOOM - Leigh Butler, Entry #7](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=512#7)

#### Leigh Butler

Friday

Before I tell you what happened Friday, I have to back up about a week or so, to an email I received out of the blue from Jason, which said (in its entirety), "Can you braid your hair?"

And this is how I discovered that the Opening Ceremonies for JordanCon were (a) a comedic skit that (b) I was in. Playing Nynaeve. Of course I was.

\*sniff\*

Jason's muse for this was rather out of control, you guys, but then he had rather a lot of people to introduce. Of course, perhaps I shouldn't throw stones, since out of everyone in the cast I was pretty much the only one who got crazy and decided she needed a prop.

See, I do have fairly long brown hair, but braiding it is problematic because it is all layer-y, and plus I suck at braiding my own hair. Fortunately I live in New York City, where one can find literally anything if one is only determined enough, and by dint of some Googling and bugging innocent salespeople over the phone, I came upon a tiny little shop in the Garment District called Lacey's Costume Wig. Which is... pretty self-explanatory, I should think, and thus it was that I became the owner of one waist-length brown wig which was surprisingly realistic considering I only spent twenty bucks on it. Of course, I just spent twenty bucks on a wig I will probably never wear again, so maybe I shouldn't be too proud of myself.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*