# [Interview #50: LOC Signing Report - Judy Ghirardelli, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=50#1)

#### Judy Ghirardelli

Well, we met the Creator tonight. Very nice, etc etc etc. What everyone else said.

I did not have to say where I got the books. Whew.

Being in a New Place, Warder was worried about me, and suggested I hire a temp Warder to fill in. He said "like that Chad fellow". So I temporarily bonded Chad, who kept me safe throughout the signing. I severed his bond as soon as I got home. Being Aes Sedai of the Teal Ajah (half Blue, half Green), I am permitted to occasionally bond other Warders temporarily for safety's sake.

Mike—your book is signed. Chad did it, since he was getting just one book signed, and I was getting six signed. We had to write on a stickum what we wanted it addressed to—a book helper wrote it down on the stickum. I said, "To Sir" "Sir? Like, ... sir?" "Yes, sir... MPS Mike". She looked at me like I was a loon, but Chad rescued me and said, "You kinda had to be there". I think Jordan signed it no questions asked. I have it now, and if you'll just pay me $1453, I'll give it back to you . :)

I got there about 20 minutes early, perused their SF selections (got
*Briar Rose*
by Jane Yolen and
*Snow White and Rose Red*
by Patricia Wrede), bought
*The Eye of the World*
and
*The Great Hunt*
in hardback, and got in line. I also saw in line Chad, Corwin (Jim Folsom) and a lurker named Russ (friends with Bob Gibson).

I had a list of questions to ask, most from Erica, Twin of my Heart. I got up there and asked:

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*