# [Interview #175: COT Signing Report - Neill Smith, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=175#2)

#### Neill Smith

I went through the line twice. My first question to him concerned the status of the unabridged audiobooks. I told him that I had tried to buy them from Books on Tape and had found out that they had lost the rights to them. He said that he hadn't known that, and that he would check in to the matter. I also mentioned that
*The Eye of The World*
had been listed by Amazon as being released by The Publishing Mills in October, but I never got my copy before they changed the listing to "out of print".

#### Robert Jordan

He said that the original company with the audiobooks rights had been sold to another company, and that "it was a big mess". He said Books on Tape had been sold, but I think that it is The Publishing Mills that has been sold to New Millenium Publishing. He reiterated that he would find out what was going on. I asked how I could find out what the status was after he found out, and he said he didn't know of any way to manage that. I then suggested maybe he could send a message to Dragonmount after he had checked into matters, and he said that yes he might send an answer to Jason (??). [Editor's note: Woo hoo! That's me!] So Jason (??, I hope I got the name right) maybe you could remind him to check into this, or maybe you can find out what is going on through your WoT-related contacts. He did say that the audiobook publisher of
*Crossroads of Twilight*
is a Tor company, so I guess The Publishing Mills only had rights to the first 8 or 9 books.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*