# [Interview #992: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: Stormlight Videos + Updates, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=992#1)

#### Brandon Sanderson

This past weekend I had a great time at JordanCon. Next year's Author Guest of Honor will be Patrick Rothfuss, with Artist Guest of Honor Larry Elmore. It should be awesome.

While I was there I signed a number of books for two booksellers, The Missing Volume and Basement Books. They each also have a handful of copies of my
*Firstborn/Defending Elysium*
convention exclusive—but I forgot to sign those. Whoops. Still, if you're not at a con, this is the only way to get your hands on that hardcover until much later this year. Both booksellers will ship to you.

The Missing Volume
  
Raleigh, NC
  
Email: info@themissingvolume.com
  
Phone: 321-297-6635
  
Plenty of signed copies of
*The Emperor's Soul*
and one signed copy of a number of other hardcovers and paperbacks such as
*The Alloy of Law*
, Wheel of Time books, and
*The Way of Kings*
. Inquire for details.

Basement Books
  
Email: tsbooks@mindspring.com
  
Phone: 770-849-9659
  
20 signed copies of
*Legion*
(very hard to find elsewhere!), a few signed 1st editions of
*Warbreaker*
, copies of
*The Alloy of Law*
triple-signed by Brandon, Ben, & Isaac, signed copies of
*The Emperor's Soul*
.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*