# [Interview #415: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: TGS Turned In! + Book Signing News, Entry #1](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=415#1)

#### Brandon Sanderson

JordanCon was awesome. I'll do a post about it soon. First, I thought I should mention some book signing news that I've forgotten, in the craziness of the last few weeks, to mention. After that, I'll bring all of you WoT fans up to date on what has been happening with
*The Gathering Storm*
. (So if you have no interest in the signings in Utah and Nebraska, you can skip down to that section.)

I have a signing tomorrow (Thursday 23rd) at the Barnes and Noble in Orem, Utah from 7-8pm. It's educator's night, so they have special deals for all you teachers, but anyone is welcome to come chat with me and get a book signed.

I also am finally going to be making it back to Nebraska, the first time in years. Some libraries and schools have decided to fly me out, and I'll be doing several signings and appearances related to this. Here's the full list:

\*Signing Wednesday, April 29th
6:30-8:00 PM UPDATED!!
  
The Bookworm
  
8702 Pacific St
  
Omaha, NE 68114
  
(402) 392-2877
  

NOTE: Stock will be limited at this event. There will be some books for sale, but not a large number, so feel free to bring your own books or buy them somewhere else, then bring them. I fly in at 5:00, so I'm hoping to be to this on time, but be aware I might be a tad late.

\*Presentation April 30th 7:00-9:30 PM
  
Seward Memorial Library
  
233 S 5th St
  
Seward, NE 68434
  
(402) 643-3318

(NOTE: 7-8 will be a general author reception, while my presentation from 8-9:30 will be targeted more at high school students.

Friday, May 1st
  
\*Presentation Time TBA
  
Morton-James Public Library

THIS EVENT HAS BEEN CANCELED
Sorry! The Nebraska City library just informed us that, for various reasons, this event is going to have to vanish. I'm very sorry.

\*Signing
  
Saturday, May 2nd
  
2:00-4:00 PM
  
Lee Booksellers
  
Edgewood Center
  
5500 S. 56th Street, Suite 4
  
Lincoln, NE 68516

I've long wanted to get back to Lincoln to do some appearances, and finally I have my chance. So spread the word! Nebraska is a little off the standard book tour publicity trail, and so the chances of me getting back very often are not high. But if this goes really well, I might be able to convince Tor to send me during the Wheel of Time tour at some point. (And I might be back next year for a convention.)

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*