# [Interview #422: Book Expo America Interview, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=422#2)

#### Damon Cap

So how do you feel now that you know the ending?

#### Brandon Sanderson

The ending was great. I mean not...you know. It's... I'm biased, because... I mean, what else am I going to say? But at the same time, I really did really enjoy the ending. It's fulfilling.

#### DAMON CAP

Did the ending make you reminisce more about the other books? Did you feel those other books had a little more power behind them after reading the ending?

#### BRANDON SANDERSON

Yeah. Yeah, definitely. He was a... He's a master of foreshadowing. He really is. It's not like certain other books where I don't want to name the authors, but you read book seven and you're like, "How did this happen? This isn't foreshadowed. You're just making this stuff up." I mean, I read the ending; he finished the ending before he passed away. And then I started the series and read it through again. And the things that were in there, foreshadowing that ending I read just blew me away. The detail, the level of detail in some of his foreshadowing. There are visions of scenes that people are having in the first few books which are scenes from the last book. Which is just amazing.

#### DAMON CAP

I think that definitely is something that he was master of.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*