# [Interview #511: Recap of JordanCon - Richard Fife, Entry #11](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=511#11)

#### Richard Fife

OK, so after our drinks, I changed into my poor-man's Asha'man outfit (with pins, imagine that) and went back down for dinner, where I somehow ended up eating dinner with three of the Tor staffers that were at the con, including our own favorite Cylon, Pablo. Great fun.

Next was the "Cairhien Ball", where The Lost Boys performed a wonderful set of music, and I even danced with Harriet. Eat your hearts out. The winners were announced for the Tuckerization auction and raffle, both of whom were not present and I cannot recall the names (the sound-system for the announcement mic was kind of bad anyway.) A costume contest was held, with many many wonderful costumes, from Aes Sedai to Asha'man to Faile to the High Inquisitor to one of Elayne's personal royal guards.

So, after that, we had the Big City Burlesque show give us an, um, interesting? Yes, that’s the word, interesting, and entertaining!, interpretation of Valan Luca’s Show. It was great fun.

After that, ROOM PARTIES! Yes, we all were up quite late, and, I must tell you all, I am now a member of the Plaid Ajah. It is a secret organization led by our beloved Plaidmyrlin, and it has only two rules.

1) Never speak of the Plaid Ajah!

2) Tell everyone about the Plaid Ajah! What's the point of being in a secret organization if you can't gloat.

So yeah, I'm in. Haha! I crashed around two AM, after a wonderful discussion of Eddie Izzard and Denis Leary with Leigh and a few others. And no, Leigh isn't in the Plaid Ajah. I guess she just isn't cool enough.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*