# [Interview #511: Recap of JordanCon - Richard Fife, Entry #14](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=511#14)

#### Richard Fife

After that, I went, like a proper hobbit, and had second breakfast with—ready for it?—Tom, Harriet, and Wilson, amongst a smattering of others, including a few Tor.com readers/posters. That was great conversation as well, but hey, when is it not? After that was done, I sat in on another Brandon Sanderson panel, and now, finally, for "How is
*A Memory of Light*
being organized?".

#### Brandon Sanderson

OK, I’ll start by saying Brandon did not tell us any names/characters who are going to be where, so I will have to be as vague as him. Although, I think I saw a chart somewhere that will give us an idea, if someone wants to be investigative.

So, the story as stands at the end of
*Knife of Dreams*
has four "plot arcs" that are more or less related through "geography, fate, thought, etc." At the end of each of those arcs was a giant chunk of joined material that was "Tarmon Gai'don" and made up roughly 1/3 of the story. Brandon started writing these plot arcs like four separate novels with the intent to intersperse them. He had finished the third arc and hit 400k words when they decided they had to split it.

So, what they are doing: the first two plot arcs he wrote are going to be MOSTLY included in
*The Gathering Storm*
, as well some set-up/teaser of the other two. Then, in the second book (Working title
*The Shifting Winds*
, by the by, but we were promised it is going to be changed) is going to continue from that set-up/teaser of the third and fourth plot arcs, and including the final setup of the first two so that everyone hits at the same point and is ready for Tarmon Gai'don. Book three (working title is
*Tarmon Gai'don*
, but it might be
*A Memory of Light*
), will be, yes, Tarmon Gai'don. So, there ya go.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*