# [Interview #38: LOC Signing Report - Tony Zbaraschuk, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=38#9)

#### Question

What about those Warders in Caemlyn around Logain in
*The Eye of the World*
? Didn't Moiraine say that they were all Red sisters? Reds don't have Warders!

#### Robert Jordan

Moiraine never mentioned the sisters escorting Logain (not all of whom were Red Ajah). The ones with Logain weren't in Caemlyn at the time. Moiraine was referring to those that were in Caemlyn. There is something explaining this in
*Lord of Chaos*
. Remember that the interleaving of plot threads goes backward as well as forward.

#### Tony Zbaraschuk

[Evidently they stayed with the army, which stayed outside the city.]

[Side note: I think I know the reference Jordan was talking about, but I'm not sure I believe it. Remember when Logain was talking to those Altaran nobles, mentioning all the Reds that had secretly supported him, apparently under Elaida's direction. Mentioning this at Siuan's instigation, we all thought. What if Logain was actually telling the truth? Siuan Sanche will be the most surprised woman in the world. I sort of hope I'm wrong on this one. Can anyone else come up with another reference in LoC that might explain this? One mentioning Reds in Caemlyn around the time of Logain's capture?] [Note 2: If Jordan was planning this all the way back in
*The Eye of the World*
—I am in awe. Pure stricken awe at the plotting consistency.]

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*