# [Interview #980: Waygate Foundation Q&A, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=980#3)

#### Question

Will The Wheel of Time universe become open source? Meaning will people be allowed to write stories with approval from Harriet and team Jordan?

#### Maria Simons

No, The Wheel of Time universe will not become open source.

#### Question

At a book signing the other day Brandon said that there would be no more books written, prequels, sequels etc. He said that the only extra book would be this updated encyclopedia. Will all the characters bios include what happened before and after the WOT series?

#### Maria Simons

Some characters' bios will contain more information about a character’s history. For the most part, they will not contain what happened to them after the end of
*A Memory of Light*
. Robert Jordan is on record as having no intention of wrapping things up neatly for all characters. As a fan myself, I like this, because it means that in my own mind, the character that I loved can live on happily forever, and the characters that I hate can suffer woefully and die painful deaths.

In addition, Robert Jordan’s notes did not have information about what happened to each character before and after the series, and since we at Team Jordan don’t know his thoughts on these things, we are reluctant to just make things up. I would be happy to share my personal imaginings for the characters that I care about, but they are not canon.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*