# [Interview #188: Wotmania Interview, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=188#8)

#### Wotmania

Wotmania is a vibrant website, where fans passionately discuss the series in huge discussion forums. How often do you look at other such websites, and what do you think of the attitudes expressed there? How valuable a tool is the Internet for interacting with your fans? Does it slightly unnerve you that fans have managed to post new ideas at forums for over six years now?

#### Robert Jordan

I rarely look in the fan sites except when someone tells me that there is something I should check out on one of them. The occasional visit is all I have time for, since most of my day is given over to writing.

I do believe the websites are valuable for interacting with my fans. I have an on-going relationship with Jason Denzel and Dragonmount that has lasted for a number of years, now. This relationship has allowed Jason to bring various rumors to my attention, so I can let the fans know that I haven't been hit by a bus, defected to China, or disappeared in a flying saucer piloted by Elvis. Both Dragonmount and Wotmania cooperated with Tor books in getting questions from readers for me to post answers to on the Tor Books website, and in finding romances that began over or because of The Wheel of Time.

It does seem very odd to me that people are still posting new ideas after all this time. Frankly, I never expected ANYTHING like this when I began writing the cycle.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*