# [Interview #664, Entry #7]: East of the Sun Con - Hans Persson](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=664#7)

#### Hans Persson

In the midmorning on Saturday there was nothing interesting scheduled so I took that time to eat and look through the Science Fiction bookstores assortment. When I understood that there actually was an interview taking place I came in just as an interview with Robert Jordan was ending. Of the little I heard it was mostly about his own works which it seemed to me everyone there except me had read so it didn't bother me much that I had missed most of it. That I was alone in not having read all of Jordan's books became apparent before his speech. While I checked out the different booths (a half dozen or so) the queue started to line up for the booksigning. It stood probably 30 people there at the most, which is a large part of all the attending the convention. I don't know exactly how many attendants the convention had but it felt like it couldn't have been more than just over a hundred. [Talks about the convention hall and how it'd difficult to get a good overview of all the convention, translator's remarks]. When I went a little closer to the queue to see what was actually going on it seemed to be a booksigning of a slightly different character than is usually going on at ConFuse. At ConFuse people often have one or a few books with them, often bought on site after recommendation by the guest of honor. Here one after the other they came with large bags with the whole Wheel of Time series in well read copies; amazingly many had the copies in hardcover.

#### Robert Jordan

Jordan told how he used to draw the American bookstores' irritation at booksignings over there. Now and again people came up to him and asked him to sign the latest hardcover installment of the series (part six or so) while telling him they hadn't read the earlier parts yet but had heard this book was supposed to be very good. He [Jordan] then recommended to them to put the large expensive hardcover back and instead go get the cheaper paperback of the first part of his series and let him sign that one instead.

