# [Interview #549: Dragonmount Interview with Brandon Sanderson by Luckers, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=549#5)

#### Luckers

How difficult has weaving
*Towers of Midnight*
around
*The Gathering Storm*
been? Is there a large amount of inter-connectivity? Do we cross back on any events in
*The Gathering Storm*
?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes, we do cross back on events in
*The Gathering Storm*
. The trickiest part was timeline. Robert Jordan had this innate ability to juggle timelines. This is not something he relied on Maria, Alan, or Harriet for; it was something he did on his own, just part of the genius of his brain. All of us are pretty new at this. I mean, I wrote
*Mistborn*
chronologically. There wasn’t any time juggling. There was time juggling to do in
*Elantris*
, but it was across the course of a single novel. It didn’t get as extensive. For the Wheel of Time, timeline things that Robert Jordan kept in his head are quite incredible, and I have to admit that I’m not as good at it as he was. Perhaps someday I will be able to get to that level, but for now I’m simply not. So working with the timeline has taken a lot of effort. I think we’ve got it so it all worked out. It took a lot of help. Maria, Alan, and others all worked together with me to get things arranged—some of our beta readers were extremely helpful in this—but there is a lot of juggling back and forth. You will see some events from different perspectives. It is not a complete jump back like book ten was. I would say that the book is mostly new material with a few glances at other things that are happening, but we’re moving forward; I’d say 60% of the book is taking place past what happened in
*The Gathering Storm*
. And then there’s one timeline in particular where we jump back and catch up—that’s Perrin’s timeline. But it was really challenging.

