# [Interview #507: JordanCon: Interview with Harriet McDougal by Richard Fife, Entry #11](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=507#11)

#### Richard Fife

Stepping back, we have just passed the twentieth anniversary of the series and
*The Eye of the World*
. Some people have gone so far as to compare The Wheel of Time to Tolkien and his influence on fantasy. How do you feel it has affected fantasy in general?

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

Yes, certainly
*The Times*
compared them. But, it's just damn good. That is really how it has affected it. A writer friend said he thought the thing that Jim did special was to take Tolkien at one end of the fantasy spectrum and Conan on the other end and combine them, which is interesting for its time.

#### Richard Fife

So, a middle-ground of low, pulp fantasy and high fantasy?

#### Harriet McDougal Rigney

Well, not low pulp, but barbarian fantasy. The muscular Cimmerian, and those books are really quite good. I am rereading them, and in Conan Chronicles number one, it is very obvious to me, looking back, that Jim was brooding about the events in Afghanistan at that time. He's got them right in there. That is not something you usually find in pulp fiction very often. Where the author is incorporating thoughts about current events into a fantasy world, and of course he has done that: Children of the Light, hello?

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*