# [Interview #130: Science Fiction Book Club Interview, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=130#2)

#### SFBC

How do you keep all the characters and plot lines that you have come up with straight?

#### Robert Jordan

The plot lines are in my head. I have lots of notes on the characters on my computer. Notes on the various countries, the cultures, the organizations, that sort of thing, the history of the world. On flora and fauna. All of that.

#### SFBC

That must be exhaustive.

#### Robert Jordan

They're fairly large files. The largest are the Aes Sedai files, there are two of those. One lists every Aes Sedai that I have mentioned in the books and some that I haven't, with everything I know about her. These are normally the things that have been mentioned in the books, but other things that may never be mentioned that give me a picture of this character. And there's another file that covers the history of the White Tower, the laws, the customs, political organization, how the Hall of the Tower works, organization of the Ajahs, recruiting, training, all of those things. Tower grounds.

#### SFBC

Are there any plans for The Wheel of Time encyclopedia?

#### Robert Jordan

Perhaps after I finish, but I have to tell you, just the file on the Aes Sedai is about, oh, it's now just getting to be too big to put on a 1.44 floppy... And the same with the one on the Tower, so I'm very glad I have an LS120 drive. The other files are not that big. I might do something, a concordance or encyclopedia when the series is done, so it can be complete, but I don't know.

