# [Interview #130: Science Fiction Book Club Interview, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=130#3)

#### SFBC

Someone mentioned to me that your wife is your editor?

#### Robert Jordan

Yes, she is.

#### SFBC

What's that like?

#### Robert Jordan

Interesting. She's very good. I think she's one of the best editors in the business, and luckily, she's been willing to keep editing me, although she's given everybody else up.

#### SFBC

She plays a really big part in keeping track of all your plot lines and characters?

#### Robert Jordan

No, no. I do that myself, but she's the first set of eyes. An editor—the first thing an editor does is tell you when you've failed. When you've failed to convince her that this person would say or do this thing. An editor is the person who goes in there and says, "You've told me more about this than you need to." Or, "here you didn't convince me." She has a wonderful instinct for it and for the whole rest of the editorial job, of course.

#### SFBC

I was looking through the manuscript and noticed the words "Revision 5" and so forth.

#### Robert Jordan

That's before it ever gets to her. When I make what I consider a major change in a chapter, I notch up the revision once. Not for small changes, but if you have a manuscript there, you'll notice that the revisions numbers get to be less as they go further into the book. That's because I am constantly re-writing, constantly thinking of a way I can do something better earlier on. I often go back and re-write things that I've done earlier.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*