# [Interview #836: Orem Signing Report - Zas, Entry #30](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=836#30)

#### Andre

You're friends with Patrick Rothfuss, right?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yes, I am.

#### Andre

Can you give him any tips to write faster?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Well, Pat is, he's very into beautiful prose, this is his thing. And it shows. And you can't do that fast. My prose is not as beautiful, my prose is translucent is what I try to do. I try to write prose so you don't see it, and you see the story. And that prose can go faster. And it's just a matter of writing style. I actually envy his prose sometimes, and he envies my speed.

#### Andre

I imagine.

#### Brandon Sanderson

But, I think the third one will be faster. After the first one came out he ended up with this huge performance anxiety problem because the first one took off so much; that he couldn't even write for a year because he was so stressed about how well the book had done. He got over that. And he doesn't have that anymore. So theoretically the next book should be faster. He did sign for three more books, right?

#### Andre

He signed for a new trilogy...

#### Josh

Which one would hope means he's getting close to done with the one he's in the middle of. We can all hope.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*