# [Interview #836: Orem Signing Report - Zas, Entry #43](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=836#43)

#### Zas

So what's up with the regeneration issue?

#### Brandon Sanderson

[looks confused]

#### Zas

With Shards? Because they only have so much power they can access at a certain time, but yet they still have more energy. So how does that work? Is it just they have so much power they can use at any given time?

#### Brandon Sanderson

[still slightly confused] What are you talking about? Like which shards?

#### Zas

Ruin and Preservation. Since we know the most about them.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Ruin and Preservation were a specific instance, because almost all their energy was thrown into resisting each other. Keep that in mind. Even after Preservation was only a shadow, basically all of it was "Let's keep Ruin from destroying the world". So they were polar opposites. Set in balance. But slightly unbalanced in a couple of ways, that eventually, that slight imbalance [led to the Mistborn Trilogy]. They are a special case, because of that.

#### Zas

So then why are they hesitant to directly fuel Allomancy?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Why are they hesitant to? What do you mean by directly fuel Allomancy?

#### Zas

You mention in the
*Hero of Ages*
Q&A that they can directly fuel Allomancy, like Vin does with Elend, but it requires expending their energy in a way they are hesitant to do.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Because it imbalances them more. Does that make sense? So if you are putting your energy here, rather than fighting the other force, that gives them an edge somewhere else, while trying to gain an edge here. And you have to make sure that's really worth it. Like a chess game. Is it worth sacrificing my pawn here to expose myself over here.

#### Zas

That makes sense.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*