# [Interview #560: TOM Signing Report - Cincinnati Tower Guards, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=560#5)

#### Tower Guard Mark

CINCINNATI - Evidence of a startling reality is readily apparent at the Joseph-Beth Bookseller in Norwood tonight (November 3rd): the WOT virus has spread more rapidly than originally projected. Hundreds of the afflicted are present here to engage two of the leading experts in the field of WOT, Brandon Sanderson and Harriet McDougal.

Drs. Sanderson and McDougal emerge from the second floor and nervous anticipation fills the air (along with the WOT virus, which is airborne) as Sanderson introduces McDougal to read from the latest book on the subject,
*Towers of Midnight*
, in which he co-wrote with the most prominent WOT researcher, the late Dr. Robert Jordan. Dr. McDougal reads the first section of the Prologue, holding her audience in rapt attention.

Please note that as of now, there has been no cure found for the WOT virus, but it is treatable and people with the virus are able to lead normal and productive lives. However, occasional flare-ups of RLDS (Real Life Deficiency Syndrome) do occur, and it is during these times that the virus is so dangerous to those afflicted. Symptoms include uncontrollable reading, a lack of sleep, dementia, mania (mainly laughing hysterically over things that only people with the virus find funny), depression (mainly weeping over things that only people with the virus find sad), and an inability to care about responsibilities such as work, school, or household chores.

Generally, with the release of a new book by Dr. Sanderson, an RLDS flare-up wanes once the afflicted person finishes the book, and within weeks usually reverts back to only being WOT-positive. Also, attacks usually go away quicker if other WOT-positive people or RLDS sufferers are there to coax the patient into speaking about his or her affliction, and this is done mainly on websites attributed to information about the disease or those afflicted, such as Tor.com or Dragonmount.com, to name a few.

However, this has brought hundreds of those suffering from RLDS or that are WOT-positive into interaction with each other on a more personal basis. And even though those of us that are unaffected by the WOT virus may not understand the nonsense they discuss, play or wear, that does not make them any less worthy of our thoughts and/or prayers (if so inclined).

For instance, two men are arguing whether a Role-Playing Game that they invented should use a D20, or another type of die. Men dressed as "Asha'man" and women dressed as "Aes Sedai" are in attendance. When one woman dressed as an "Aes Sedai" is asked about her costume, she exclaims that she is not "full Aes Sedai, only Accepted," whatever that means. Another group of afflicted people are playing a game called "Stones," which may offer them some level of comfort, but does not seem to have any sort of point.

Clearly, these people are tormented with a significant level of dementia. Among the most common nonsense questions that RLDS sufferers are asking the researchers, who are here to sign the most recent book written by Drs. Jordan and Sanderson: "Who killed Asmodean?," "Who is Demandred?," and "Who is Mesaana?" But others, seemingly more thought-out, and therefore indicating an even deeper level of dementia, are: "Is Shara just a red herring?," [to Dr. Sanderson] "Did you find yourself disagreeing with anything in Robert Jordan's notes?", [to Dr. McDougal] "What Aes Sedai are you most like?", "What is the Book of Translation?," and finally, "Why was the female Choedan Kal
*sa'angreal*
destroyed during the cleansing of
*saidin*
, and not the male?"

Drs. Sanderson and McDougal are very generous with their time and Brandon is a lesson in humility, especially when people thank him for writing the books. The hope is evident on their faces; it is clear that they believe Dr. Sanderson may be able to deliver them from RLDS and possibly even the WOT-virus itself, which has now spread since its first discovery 20 years ago.

Let us hope this most recent book,
*Towers of Midnight*
, and the last book co-written by Drs. Jordan and Sanderson,
*A Memory of Light*
(to be released in 2012), will help them to reach the finally reach the goal of being WOT-free. Because I have been breathing the air in here for so long, and I just picked up a book called
*The Eye of the World*
, and it is very interesting, but I am starting to feel a little strange myself...

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*