# [Interview #818: LibertyCon 2012 - AMOL Update Panel, Entry #12](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=818#12)

#### Jeffrey Daniel

So what do you think the most challenging part of writing
*A Memory of Light*
was? Was it those logistics, or was it writing battle scenes, or...

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, the battle scenes were the toughest part of
*A Memory of Light*
, definitely. At least the toughest for me, because it's not necessarily something I naturally excel at. I think I'm okay at it. I've read a lot of books...but I've read a lot of books. I haven't
*done*
it. Fortunately, Alan Romanczuk has done it. He was a soldier and Jim was a soldier, so I'm really relying a lot on him for getting it to
*feel*
right. You know, my book learning only gets me so far in the way that tactics are done and the way a battlefield plays out. So, that's been one of the big slow-downs for this. The other big slow-down for this has been just making sure we get everything in there. There are a lot of things that need to go in the book and there are some things that aren't going to make it. Jim said that certain things don't get resolved, and there are certain things we just didn't have time for and we said, "Okay, this just doesn't get resolved." And I'm sorry about that. He warned you, I will warn you: there are some non-resolutions.

#### Joe O'Hara

I don't know how other people would feel about that, but I kind of enjoy that. To me, that's where a fandom
*would*
go. We can continue to speculate and wonder and think about.

#### Jennifer Liang

Yeah, it gives us something to talk about. We can ride that or like ten years at least. (laughter)

#### Jeffrey Daniel

JordanCon will be good for a while. We'll have a lot of talking panels on that one.

#### Brandon Sanderson

I will try to keep them quiet. There are two deleted scenes from the book that actually covered very interesting things. And after the books are out I will give you guys some hints and then you can spend the next ten years deciding what was in them.

#### Jennifer Liang

Yeah, we'll ask you some really weird questions over the next ten years. We used to do that to Robert Jordan. We'd ask him very oblique questions, hinting at the thing we really wanted to know, because we were like doing process of elimination, and logic trees and...yeah, he caught on.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*