# [Interview #818: LibertyCon 2012 - AMOL Update Panel, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=818#5)

#### Jennifer Liang

So, let’s let Brandon be quiet for a minute and let’s ask Joe and Jeff, what kinds of things are you looking forward to seeing in
*A Memory of Light*
? And we’ll just kind of watch what Brandon does. (laughter)

#### Jeffrey Daniel

I think one of the biggest things that I’m looking forward to is just having closure on everything. I’ve been reading this book series since I was about twelve years old. It was actually the first book I ever really picked up, was
*The Eye of the World*
; before that I read comic books, and I was in a bookstore one day, and I happened to pick it up and of course, Darrell Sweet’s artwork was what really grabbed my attention, and I was standing there and my mom was looking at me, and she said “I bet you can’t read that.” And so I was like, “Oh yeah? Oh, it’s on!” So I read it, and then right when I finished it, I handed it right to her and I said, “I bet you can’t read this.” And so, she’s read the entire series along with me, and it’s been a part of my life since I was twelve, so to have it come to a close is kind of sad in some aspects, and sometimes you don’t
*want*
it to end.

#### Jennifer Liang

We were talking about this the other day. Brandon read a little excerpt from the first chapter at ComicCon last weekend, and I haven’t been able to go to tor.com and read that little excerpt, because I’m not ready to start the last book yet. Usually I’m all over preview material, I’m like “Yes! Fresh Wheel of Time!” But I can’t get started yet; I’m not ready.

#### Jeffrey Daniel

I think it's just, I'm looking forward to having closure, but at the same time, I'm not. So I think that overall that's what I'm looking forward to the most.

#### Joe O'Hara

Well, to comment on what you're saying, I kind of feel the same way, but in a way it doesn't even seem real that it's ending yet, 'cause it just hasn't set in, sort of. So, I don't really know how I feel about it, then, but...more specifically, in the text, I guess I'm really excited to see...a lot of reunions are coming, you know, like maybe Moiraine. I don't know...who knows who she's going to be interacting with throughout the book, so it's gonna be really cool to see a lot of characters that have been separated for so many of the books of the series coming back together for the Last Battle.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, I kill her in the prologue, sorry. [She] doesn't meet anybody. (laughter)

#### Joe O'Hara

So, I really like Moiraine. (laughter) But that's going to be cool, I think.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*