# [Interview #818: LibertyCon 2012 - AMOL Update Panel, Entry #6](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=818#6)

#### Jennifer Liang

One of the questions that people always ask me is: What's going to happen to the fandom after the Wheel of Time is over? Because we're pretty much a fandom that is based on waiting for the last book. (laughter) We've been waiting for that last book for a long time. And so, people keep asking, "Well, what are we gonna do? What are we gonna do?" And I'm like, "Well, we're going to do the things that we've
*been*
doing; we're going to talk about how much we like the books; we're gonna keep going to JordanCon, and going to the websites, and things like that." What do
*you*
guys think is going to happen with the fandom and all this stuff that we've done?

#### Brandon Sanderson

If we're very lucky, there will be some good video games that come out and things like that, and that could be...I've always felt that's a great way to kind of continue the Wheel of Time without having to risk Jim's legacy with more books, if that makes sense. If there was a way that the outriggers could be done as an epic trilogy of RPG adventures, or something like that, or you know, some of the prequel stuff, I would love to play something that's like the Mass Effect / Dragon Age version of Tam's story, going out of the Two Rivers and going and fighting a war, and things like that. And so, if...hopefully, if that can happen and Red Eagle is able to get those going, you will still have some stuff like those coming that don't necessarily have to be 100% canon, that you can accept and say, "Okay, this is interpretation..."

#### Jennifer Liang

It's a Portal Stone.

#### Brandon Sanderson

Yeah, exactly; it's a Portal Stone version of things, and I hope that will happen.

#### Joe O'Hara

That would be exciting, if they do that.

#### Jennifer Liang

Yeah, I might actually start playing video games again if that was going on.

