# [Interview #818: LibertyCon 2012 - AMOL Update Panel, Entry #8](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=818#8)

#### Question

So you were saying how you just added another scene recently, but do you think that'll be the actual last writing you do?

#### Brandon Sanderson

It probably will end up being the last actual writing, will be that scene.

#### Question

Is it sort of like, you know, cathartic to you, or is it...you're so close to the end...

#### Brandon Sanderson

I'm so close to the end...ask me after the end. It's really weird, adding these new scenes. It's kinda like the shawarma scene from
*The Avengers*
...you know, they added that way after the fact, and that becomes their last touch—of course they'll probably do a sequel and things—but it's weird to add these scenes that are just right in the middle of the book, and that's actually the last writing you do, and that's the last writing you'll do on the Wheel of Time, if I don't add any more scenes, it will be this random little scene that's really just there to patch a hole, where I'm like "Oh, I haven't...you know, never mentioned this; I didn't foreshadow this correctly; I need an extra little scene here." It's by no means the most powerful scene in the book—it's a set-up scene, and it might end up being the last scene that I did—so if you ask me after the book's out, I'll tell you what it is.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*