# [Interview #818: LibertyCon 2012 - AMOL Update Panel, Entry #9](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=818#9)

#### Joe O'Hara

Jeff, do you have a comment on that? 'Where do you think the fandom's gonna go?' You do run a business based on that.

#### Jeffrey Daniel

Yeah, well, with our business, it really goes where the fandom wants it to go, you know...what do you guys want to see? We do t-shirts now, we have a license for novelty items. Of course, we're gonna be doing playing cards soon; those will be coming out some time soon, whenever Ariel finishes a couple of revisions on those. But we're here to provide you with whatever Wheel of Time items you want to see and buy from us, so if you have any suggestions, just send them to us, contact@taverentees.com, and the more people that ask for something, the more likely we are to make it. So with that regards, I know
*A Memory of Light*
will be coming out in January; we are planning to do a
*Memory of Light*
shirt probably in the November-December time frame, so you can look for that around then. But yeah, it's basically up to the fandom. That's one of our missions statements: we're here to service whatever merchandising needs you need.

#### Jennifer Liang

And it is really nice, 'cause I've been in the Wheel of Time fandom since like 1998, and we had to make this stuff ourselves, with like gel paints and markers on our own t-shirts, and Kiley knows, 'cause she was the one that started making all the tees at the first JordanCon, so it's really nice to be able to just pull out a credit card and order something from a website instead of scouring the internet for something that looks sort of like a Wheel of Time thing. Like, my Great Serpent ring is not the officially licensed one because I've had it since before there was an officially licensed one, and it was just a random snake ring I saw on a sterling silver jeweler's table, and I'm like, "I'm buying this
*right now*
!" and he didn't understand why I was so excited.

#### Joe O'Hara

You want to mention what you said last night, Jeff, about the banners? That's exciting.

#### Jeffrey Daniel

Yeah, that's something that we want to do in the future. If you guys went to the room party last night and you saw the banners that were hanging around the rooms...

#### Jennifer Liang

Yeah, somebody had to make those for me.

#### Jeffrey Daniel

Yeah, and that's something that we're looking at doing in the future too, is making the banners.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*