# [Interview #850: Brandon Sanderson's Blog: My Dragon*Con Schedule, Entry #5](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=850#5)

#### Brandon Sanderson

Brandon's complete schedule:

FRIDAY

Fri 04:00 p.m., 209 / 210 / 211 - Hilton (Length: 1 Hour)
  
Infinity Blade: Dungeons
  
Come learn the future of iPhone/iPad standout Infinity Blade, with lead designer Frazier and world-renowned fantasy author Sanderson.

Fri probably starting at 9:30 p.m., Roswell 1–2 - Westin (Length: hours and hours)
  
Magic the Gathering with Brandon
  
Details are still in flux. There might be a draft buy-in, or maybe you should bring your own cards. It could even start earlier, at 8:30, or slightly later than 9:30. Watch Brandon's twitter feed for details as the time approaches.

SATURDAY

Sat 12:00 noon, Marquis Ballroom booth 614–615 against the back wall - Marriott. (Length: 1 Hour)
  
Autograph Session at The Missing Volume booth
  
With any luck, this will be the first signing for Brandon's novella
*Legion*
.

Sat 02:30 p.m., Regency V - Hyatt (Length: 1 Hour)
  
Delphic Oracle (simulcast with Worldcon)
  
J. Nye, T. McCaffrey, B. Sanderson, C. Yarbro, [WC] E. Kollin, [WC] S. McGuire, [WC] D. Brin
Marvel as our select group of guests and an equally esteemed group of panelists at Chicon 7 meld to form the prophetic Delphic Oracle.

Sat 04:00 p.m., M301–M304 - Marriott (Length: 1 Hour)
  
Autograph Session, Brandon Sanderson

Sat 04:30 p.m., International North room, Hyatt (Length: 2 Hours)
  
Parsec Awards Ceremony
  
Writing Excuses is nominated in the category Best Podcast about Speculative Fiction Content Creation

Sat 10:00 p.m., Atlanta Ballroom - Westin (Length: 2.5 Hours)
  
An Evening at the Winespring Inn
  
It's time to party like it's 999 NE. (Brandon will put in an appearance, but then he'll go back to his hotel room and write, because that's his idea of fun.)

SUNDAY

Sun 10:00 a.m., 209 / 210 / 211 - Hilton (Length: 1 Hour)
  
Writing for Videogames
  
D. Jolley, M. Lee, B. Sanderson, M. Capps, D. Gaider, S. Jaros
  
Dozens of endings! Hours of branching dialogue! Enjoy lively discussion of world-class writers of Dragon Age, Saint's Row, Infinity Blade, and more.

Sun 04:00 p.m., Atlanta Ballroom - Westin (Length: 1 Hour)
  
*A Memory of Light*
Preview
  
*A Memory of Light*
, the final Wheel of Time novel, will be released January 8, 2013. Brandon will read a previously unreleased excerpt.

Sun 07:00 p.m., Roswell 1–2 - Westin (Length: 1 Hour)
  
Robert Jordan's Legacy
  
What impact did Jordan have on fantasy literature? Will his books still be popular 20 years from now? And what authors were influenced by his series?

Sun 08:30 p.m., Regency V - Hyatt (Length: hours)
  
Hugo Awards Viewing from the Chicon 7 Worldcon
  
Ever wonder what it meant when a book has "Hugo Award Winner" on the cover? Well, here they are! The Hugo is Science Fiction's Oscar Award!
  
I (assistant Peter) just found out about this simulcast yesterday and I'm not sure Brandon knows about it. Howard and Mary will be there in Chicago; Writing Excuses is nominated in the Best Related Work category.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is open source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki).*