# [Interview #1133: Chicago, Entry #14](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1133#14)

#### Question

Talking about reading unpublished material.

#### Brandon Sanderson

I always like to read something that is unpublished. So that is something new that you get only by coming to my signings or going to the internet where people will have inevitably posted it online already. \*laughter\* It’s really exclusive for like the first signing that I do and then after that everybody on the 17th Shard, which is the fan website, are like \*hilarious “oooh” sound\*
No… I have to be very careful about what I read because the publisher has certain deals about exclusivity on new releases. Like for instance I can’t read any more from the new Mistborn books because Apple has an exclusive release of new material on that and things like that. It’s just part of the deals that we do and so-- I also have to make sure that it’s not making big spoilers for other books. I have to make sure that it’s not containing errors that are glaring continuity errors and things like that. So we are going to read from a novella called Perfect State. This is a novella that I wrote oh about two years ago now and I didn’t really L-- get it done. Like I wrote it and then there was something wrong with it and I wasn’t sure what it was. I actually finished it a couple months ago. I finally figured out what it was that was wrong.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*