# [Interview #1133: Chicago, Entry #2](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1133#2)

#### Question

How does it feel to be now known as a mentor to younger writers?

#### Brandon Sanderson

How does it feel to be a mentor to younger writers? Well I think the fact that I’ve taught a university course on How to Write Science Fiction and Fantasy for ten years, I kind of had to get used to that pretty early. I took over the class because they were going to cancel it because there was no one else to teach it. The teacher who had been teaching it retired. And so I stepped in and took it over and I still teach it to this day. My requirement being that I get to post the lectures online. So if you want to read them-- err watch them, you can watch them at brandonsanderson.com/writing-advice. Or you can ask for one of these little cards that has my url on it when you come through. How’s it feel? It feels pretty cool honestly. I like interacting with new, young writers. I like helping them out. I’m really proud of like Brian [McClellan] and Janci [Patterson] who’ve gotten published. [aside to the booksellers] You have Brian’s book right there? It’s really quite good. He’s one of those ones I really can’t take credit for, because he came through and he was writing awesome stuff and so I told him like the business side. Here’s how you go get published. Some of the other ones, I’ve been able to give them pointers on their actual writing, that I think have helped out. But I think with Brian he was there already, he just needed the boost to get into the industry. It feels pretty cool.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*