# [Interview #1133: Chicago, Entry #3](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1133#3)

#### Question

Do you draw from any kind of like specific set of life experiences for your writings? Or is most of it just from your imagination?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Do I draw from a specific set of life experiences for my writing or is it just from my imagination? I would say my imagination is fueled by my specific life experiences. So the answer is both. Everything I see can become a part of my books, but at the same time sometimes it’s just a happy accident. People ask about Steelheart, the bad metaphors. One of the things about the main character is he is really bad with metaphoric language, comically bad. That happened on accident, I was writing his viewpoint and I’m like “This character is dry, he needs more of a soul, he needs more life. How can I make him work?” and I accidentally wrote a bad metaphor. That happens a lot when you’re writing, you know, purple prose and bad metaphors just come out when you’re not looking. It’s like they sneak out onto the page and you’re like “That was really bad”. Then I paused and thought “Well, let’s go ahead and leave it in \*laughter\* and run with this.” And it was great because it became a metaphor for David’s metaphor-- kind of coincidentally or ironically or whatever-- that bad metaphors become a metaphor themselves because he became the character who tries too hard. He’s /really/ earnest and he’s going to get stuff done but he’s trying a little too hard. And that’s where the bad metaphors come from, he overthinks them. He tries too hard to put something together and it ends up as just a big mess. But his earnestness comes through it, and that became his character and it works really well. But that one’s just an accident.

## Contributing

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*