# [Interview #1133: Chicago, Entry #33](https://www.theoryland.com/intvmain.php?i=1133#33)

#### Question

How do you think about reddit or the 17th shard and the Coppermind-- All the different theories going around? Do you ever find one that hits your plot line or something?

#### Brandon Sanderson

Oh yes. I don’t change it. I’m just like “There’s a smart person.” But what I learned in Wheel of Time fandom was that you can’t-- There is madness that lies in trying to change things once someone figures it out. Like particularly with the way that I do my plots, there’s foreshadowing so there’s someone who’s going to be able to figure it out. If they /can’t/ figure it out I haven’t put in the foreshadowing properly. So almost everything that I’ve put into the books, /somebody/ knows. Some of them are really obvious and everybody’s got it, and I’m okay with that because the people who don’t read the forums, a few of them will be surprised, but mostly it will be like “Yeah of course we know this Brandon. Of course we know yada yada yada” I don’t--I don’t \*mutters\* I think you’ve figured it out-- But there are things like that. But there are other little things that there are a dozen theories on, and one of them’s right.

#### Question

You are probably going to get that when there’s large populations...

#### Brandon Sanderson

There’s large populations and there’s proper foreshadowing, somebody is going to get it, and I think that’s appropriate.

== Contributing ==

*If you are viewing this on github.io, you can see that this site is opens source. Please do not try to improve this page. It is auto-generated by a python script. If you have suggestions for improvements, please start a discussion on [the github repo](https://source.wot.wiki) or [the Discord](https://discord.wot.wiki)*